Achieve universal health coverage, including financial risk 
protection, access to quality essential health-care services 
and access to safe, effective, quality and affordable essential 
medicines and vaccines for all.
By 2030, ensure equal access for all women and men to affordable 
and quality technical, vocational and tertiary education, including 
university.
Eliminate all forms of violence against all women and girls in the 
public and private spheres, including trafficking and sexual and 
other types of exploitation.
By 2030, improve water quality by reducing pollution, eliminating 
dumping and minimizing release of hazardous chemicals and 
materials, halving the proportion of untreated wastewater and 
substantially increasing recycling and safe reuse globally.
By 2020, protect and restore water-related ecosystems, including 
mountains, forests, wetlands, rivers, aquifers and lakes.
By 2030, expand international cooperation and capacity-building 
support to developing countries in water- and sanitation-
related activities and programmes, including water harvesting, 
desalination, water efficiency, wastewater treatment, recycling 
and reuse technologies.
Support and strengthen the participation of local communities in 
improving water and sanitation management.
By 2030, increase substantially the share of renewable energy in 
the global energy mix.
By 2030, double the global rate of improvement in energy 
efficiency.
Achieve higher levels of economic productivity through 
diversification, technological upgrading and innovation, including 
through a focus on high-value added and labour-intensive sectors.
Promote development-oriented policies that support productive 
activities, decent job creation, entrepreneurship, creativity and 
innovation, and encourage the formalization and growth of 
micro-, small- and medium-sized enterprises, including through 
access to financial services.
Improve progressively, through 2030, global resource efficiency 
in consumption and production and endeavour to decouple 
economic growth from environmental degradation, in 
accordance with the 10-year framework of programmes on 
sustainable consumption and production, with developed 
countries taking the lead.
By 2020, substantially reduce the proportion of youth not in 
employment, education or training.
Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working 
environments for all workers, including migrant workers, in 
particular women migrants, and those in precarious employment.
Ensure equal opportunity and reduce inequalities of outcome, 
including by eliminating discriminatory laws, policies and 
practices and promoting appropriate legislation, policies and 
action in this regard.
Make cities inclusive, 
safe, resilient and 
sustainable.
By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through 
prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse.
Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related 
hazards and natural disasters in all countries.
By 2025, prevent and significantly reduce marine pollution of all 
kinds, in particular from land-based activities, including marine 
debris and nutrient pollution.
Minimize and address the impacts of ocean acidification, 
including through enhanced scientific cooperation at all levels.
By 2020, promote the implementation of sustainable management 
of all types of forests, halt deforestation, restore degraded forests 
and substantially increase afforestation and reforestation globally.
Promote the rule of law at the national and international levels and 
ensure equal access to justice for all.
Ensure responsive, inclusive, participatory and representative 
decision-making at all levels.
Ensure public access to information and protect fundamental 
freedoms, in accordance with national legislation and international 
agreements.
The 2020 sustainability report was prepared as a form of accountability and transparency of BUMI 
in developing strategies and programs on environmental, social and governance aspects.
Adopt global standards of environmental, 
social and governance implementation and 
assessment.
Conducting investment feasibility 
studies in the renewable energy sector.
Strengthen the image of environmental, 
social and governance aspects.
Improve the quality, intensity and 
scope of dissemination of information 
on sustainability performance.
Our commitment to implementing sustainable 
performance includes
 
Environment
We are committed to:
1.
Comply with all state and regional regulations in the 
environment of bussines unit operation.
Encouraging business units to monitor and maintain 
biodiversity 
6.
Encouraging business units to implement water 
conservation and energy saving programs
7.
Contributing in efforts to implement climate change 
mitigation
9.
Encouraging business units to carry out emission 
reduction programs.
Encourage business units to seek transparency in 
disclosure of emissions data.
Encourage business units and contractors to 
adopt international voluntary standards related to 
environmental management.
Employee Health and Safety
We are committed to:
1.
Comply with all state and regional regulations in 
respect of occupational health and safety at the place 
where the business unit operates
4.
Allocating budgets in managing occupational health 
and safety
5.
Ensure the feasibility of facilities, infrastructure, 
installation and mining equipment
7.
Improving the safety performance of mining 
operations in a sustainable manner in an effort asset 
damage and termination of operations
8.
Developing safe, efficient and productive mining 
operations
9.
Encouraging business units and contractors to 
adopt international voluntary standards related to 
occupational health and safety.
39
Building resiliency amid uncertainty to maintain sustainability
Ekonomi
BUMI berkomitmen untuk:
1.
Untuk 
melakukan transformasi digital, perusahaan dituntut 
Economy
We are committed to:
1.
Comply with and respect all laws, regulations, 
agreements and conventions, including our 
governance, policies and Code of Conduct
2.
Achieve investor returns and create long-term value 
for shareholders
3.
Community Development and Empowerment
We are committed to:
1.
Engage in the community in an open and transparent 
process 
through 
effective 
consultation 
and 
complaints procedures to resolve conflicts fairly
3.
Synergize with the community in the preparation and 
development of community empowerment programs
 
Some key points of the sustainability strategy highlighted 
in this report are:
 
Adoption of industry 4.0 technology/ digitalization.
Digital Transformation in the mining 
industry plays an important role by providing suitable 
solutions to overcome these challenges in the future.
Real Time Crew Management - equips MOD field 
supervisors with software called Minners Apps and 
a real time set of dashboards (widescreen TV) to 
drive fact-based decision making and performance 
management and to increase productivity.
41
Building resiliency amid uncertainty to maintain sustainability
3.
Maintenance Process Digitalization (MainPro) 
management 
- 
digitizing 
the 
end-to-end 
maintenance process flow from job identification, 
work planning, work scheduling, job execution to 
job closure in a structured integrated digital tool 
to improve efficiency and quality of maintenance 
implementation.
Other key sustainability strategy points highlighted in this 
report are:
COVID-19 Mitigation.
We consider that operational activities carried out by 
business units pose a high health and safety risk for 
workers.
We are taking steps forward to ensure the health and 
safety of employees and their families through regular 
screening (PCR / rapid test antigen / rapid test antibody).
Disseminating COVID-19 to employees and management of BUMI, including business units, and 
encouraging personal hygiene and the work environment.
Provision of masks and hand sanitizers in the work area.
Encourage employees and management to 
maintain personal hygiene and work environment.
Rules for postponement of official travel.
Rest and work at home rules for employees.
If an employee’s family shows signs of contracting 
COVID-19, the employee is required to work from home and report the doctor’s progress and 
diagnosis to the head of their respective department.
Aturan work from home (WFH).
Work from home (WFH) rules.
BUMI’s Human Rights Commitment Version 1.0
1.
Prohibit all forms of forced labor practices, modern 
slavery, and all forms of human trafficking.
Identify any form of child labor in the company’s op-
erations, business units and supply chains.
Protect and maintain the safety of workers and 
visitors who work or visit our areas of operation.
Prohibit all forms of discrimination in terms of pay-
ment of wages, recruitment, promotion, training and 
provision of facilities based on ethnicity, religion, 
race or gender.
Prohibit all forms of indications that lead to acts of 
corruption and bribery.
105
Building resiliency amid uncertainty to maintain sustainability
(Free, Prior, Inform, Consent) dalam proses penggu-
naan lahan masyarakat adat.
Identify all actions that have any potential detrimen-
tal impact, especially on the surrounding communi-
ty, for the commitment to create a healthy, safe and 
prosperous society.
HUMAN RIGHTS DUE DILIGENCE ROADMAP
In accordance with the human rights policy and proce-
dures version 1.0, we have developed a roadmap to carry 
out human rights due diligence.
Human 
rights are in accordance with the United Nations Guiding 
Principles on Business and Human Rights.
HUMAN RIGHTS COORDINATOR
Through the Decree of the Board of Directors No.
478/
BR-BOD/XII/18, the human rights coordinator team suc-
ceeded in compiling a roadmap to carry out human rights 
due diligence in 2020.
Started with a cross-departmental 
meeting at BUMI and then a meeting with business units, 
the human rights coordinator team then held a meeting 
to discuss the mechanism to implement the human rights 
due diligence plan.
RESPECT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS IN COOPERATION 
AGREEMENTS
We realize that the swift performance of business partners 
is closely related to BUMI’s business sustainability.
GRIEVANCE MECHANISM
In developing and establishing a complaint mechanism, 
the criteria of an effective complaint mechanism is in ac-
cordance with the United Nations Guiding Principles for 
Business and Human Rights which includes aspects of 
legitimacy, accessible for complainant, concise handling 
time, fair, transparent, and solution oriented.
Prima, superior quality coal, with high calorie, very 
low ash content, medium sulfur content with low 
humidity.
Pinang has lower calories than Prima with a higher 
humidity level.
The coal is 
broken down, separated and then washed to reduce its 
ash content to increase its selling price.
In 2020, the total coal mined by Arutmin reached 21.4 
million tons, a decrease of 16% from 25.5 million tons in 
the previous year.
This is proven as no products violate the regulations and 
are prohibited from circulation by the Government.
To that end, through the development of 
a selection system and evaluation of procedures, BUMI 
demonstrates its commitment to the sustainability of 
procurement.
We apply 
environmental management and OHS standards from the 
planning and procurement process, making and finalizing 
contracts, to final completion in accordance with 
applicable regulations.
the contract related to the environmental management 
and OHS obligations in accordance with the applicable 
regulations.
To ensure that the suppliers comply with all 
the requirements requested by the company, the suppliers 
were required to sign a mutually agreed employment 
contract.
CUSTOMER COMPLAINT HANDLING
BUMI and its subsidiaries realize customer complaint 
resolution activity as a form of commitment to long-term 
business relationships and service quality to customers.
The company has a complaint mechanism 
from external parties.
Parties participating in reporting violations are entitled to 
legal protection from the Company.
As a company that has a human rights policy, we highly 
respect and comply with national and international values 
and regulations.
The product we produce is coal, which is a raw material 
product, so we do not label the products we produce.
(103-3)
CHALLENGE AND STRATEGY
We are aware that mining operations will create 
significant environmental changes.
We are committed to developing 
work systems that are based on information technology/
digitalization and global standards in order to minimize 
BUMI’s negative impact on the environment.
When identifying potential 
environmental impacts, KPC and Arutmin garnered input 
from all stakeholders to ensure that the insights of local 
communities were reflected in the decision-making 
process.
Ensure that all business units comply with national 
and local regulations governing the environment.
Minimize our impact on the environment in all our 
operations.
Encourage business units to monitor and maintain 
biodiversity.
Encourage business units to implement water 
conservation and energy-saving programs.
Contribute to efforts in mitigating climate change.
Encourage business units to carry out waste 
management 
in 
accordance 
with 
applicable 
regulatory standards.
Encourage business units to implement emission 
reduction (GHG) programs.
Encourage business units to be transparent in 
disclosing emission data.
Encourage business units and contractors to adopt 
international voluntary standards related to the 
environment.
Berdasarkan identifikasi dan penilaian dampak dan risiko, 
maka pada tahun 2020 KPC dan Arutmin memprioritaskan 
beberapa program kerja pengelolaan lingkungan meliputi, 
pengendalian pencemaran, efisiensi sumber energi, 
We believe that the sustainability performance of 
contractors, mining equipment suppliers and consultants 
have an important meaning in realizing BUMI’s business 
sustainability.
We conduct periodic assessment and 
evaluation of compliance aspects of environmental 
management with contractors, mining equipment 
suppliers and consultants.
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT IDENTIFICATION   
KPC and Arutmin have consistently carried out their 
commitments in performing the mandate stated in 
the AMDAL of each company.
This is in accordance 
with the company’s obligation to comply with the 
Government’s provisions contained in the Minister of 
Environment Regulation No.
5 of 2012 and No.
KPC and Arutmin carried out identification and 
assessment starting from the exploration and planning 
stages, production, transportation, to the post-mining 
stage.
KPC conducts hazardous waste storage activities at 9 
TPS hazardous waste locations which were approved 
by the East Kutai Regent.
The permit was issued on 30 August 
2019 and is valid for 5 years.
This layer covers the 
potentially acidic material (PAF) and is about 180 
centimetres thick
2.
This 
layer covers the FABA layer and is on average 3 meters 
thick.
This layer covers both the FABA and NAF 
layers.
This layer is approximately 1 meter thick.
This data will be monitored for 1 year to 
determine the effectiveness of the covering layer in the 
rainy and dry seasons.
All of these utilization options had 
succeeded in absorbing the entire FABA waste generation 
generated internally by KPC.
In 2020, the total number of tires 
employed was 2,915.
Utilization of General Waste in 2020
 
Pollution Control through Management of Mine 
Wastewater and Domestic Wastewater
By the end of 2020, KPC had actively and routinely made 
efforts to manage the quality of wastewater.
36/ 2008.
control pool to managewater quantity (discharge) and a 
labyrinth pool to manage the quality of the output water.
In 2020, Arutmin released 39.1 million m3 of water 
by providing lime and alum amounting to 1,595 ton and 
210 ton respectively.
Routine measurement and management of water quality 
parameters revealed that the quality of the water released 
into water bodies met 100% of the quality standards set by 
applicable laws and regulations.
At the end of 2020, KPC 
had 34 mine wastewater compliance points, 7 wastewater 
to the sea management points and 11 domestic 
wastewater compliance points.
Results indicated that the water quality at all monitoring 
locations was satisfactory during 2020..
The company 
processed 2 million m3 or 51% of the total raw water 
through water treatment plant facilities in 2020.
Biodiesel, in this case, is a renewable energy source that 
can replace fossil fuels as an energy source in vehicles.
In 2020, the total consumption of KPC biodiesel was 
243,202.9 kiloliters, with diesel consumption reaching 
567,473.5 kiloliters, and Pertamax gasoline of 940.3 
kiloliters.
Biodiesel usage is about 
32.8% of the total energy usage.
Consequently, 
the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources has targeted 
a reduction in GHG emissions of 314 million tons of CO2 
by 2030.
The reduction is expected to reach 29% with own 
efforts and 41% with international support.
As a coal mining company that has high environmental 
awareness, BUMI supports the GHG emission reduction 
target that has been announced by the Ministry of 
Energy and Mineral Resources.
Through the Environment and Forestry Ministerial 
Regulation of the Republic of Indonesia No.
12 of 2012 
concerning Guidelines for Calculating Emission Loads 
for Oil and Gas Industry Activities, we note that in 2020, 
the carbon emissions produced directly (Scope 1) in the 
KPC business environment amounted to 1,997,695, 6 tons 
CO2eq, a decrease in emissions compared to the previous 
year which was 2,272,053.56 tons CO2eq.
Faktor Emisi Listrik/ Electricity Emission Factor Grid Barito = 1,13 ton CO2/MWh
KETANGGUHAN BUMI DALAM UPAYANYA MELESTARIKAN LINGKUNGAN HIDUP
BUMI’s Resilience In Its Efforts to Preserve Environment
Emisi GRK langsung (Scope 1) Arutmin | Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) Arutmin
Kegiatan
Activity
2018
2019
2020
Juta Liter
Million Liter
Ton Equivalent 
Co2
Juta Liter
Million Liter
Ton Equivalent 
Co2
Juta Liter
Million Liter
Ton Equivalent 
Co2
Penggunaan Solar 
Solar Usage
186,27
496.285,6
145,86
388.610,1
112,06
298.563,4
Penggunaan BioDiesel 
Biodiesel Usage
32,22
70.786,6
32,76
71.996,7
36,84
80.961,5
Total
218,49
567.072,2
178,63
460.606,8
148,91
379.524,9
Perhitungan Intensitas Emisi Gas Rumah Kaca Arutmin | Arutmin Greenhouse Gas Emission Intensity Calculation
Keterangan
Remarks
Unit
2018
2019
2020
Total Emisi Karbon
Total Carbon Emission 
Ton eq.
In 2021, KPC has set an emission 
reduction target of 151,626.9 tons of CO2 eq.
To control noise and exhaust gas emissions, measurement 
and maintenance of generators and operational vehicle 
units are carried regularly.
Additionally, generators with 
low noise levels and place them in the room equipped 
with noise dampers.
Baku Mutu Emisi Kegiatan Pertambangan Sumber Emisi Kegiatan 
Penunjang”	
“* Quality Standards (Standards) based on the Minister of Environment 
Regulation No.
04/2014 concerning Quality Standards of Immovable 
Source Emissions for Mining Businesses and /or Activities Annex VI.
04/2014 concerning Quality Standards of Immovable Source Emissions for 
Mining Businesses and / or Activities Annex VI.
Emission monitoring activities refer to:
•	
Regulation of the Minister of Environment  No.
07 
of 2007 on “Quality Standards of Immovable Source 
Emissions for Steam Boilers”
•	
Regulation of the Minister of Environment and 
Forestry No.
P.15/MENLHK/SETJEN/KUM.1/4/2019 on 
``Emission Standards for Thermal Power Plants’’
•	
Regulation of the Minister of Environment No.
* Quality standards refer to the Regulation of the Minister of Environment and Forestry 
of the Republic of Indonesia No.
MINIMIZE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT WITH 
RECLAMATION AND REVEGETATION OF 
LAND IN POST-MINING AND BIODIVERSITY 
CONSERVATION
Kaltim Prima Coal (KPC) PKP2B area covers ± 849.38 
km2, covering the Sangatta and Bengalon mines, 
with geographic boundaries between 117o27’7.40”- 
117o40’43.40” east longitude and 0o31’20.52”- 0o52’4, 60”.
The PKP2B KPC areas are in the North Sangatta, Bengalon 
and Kaubun Districts on the north side, while in the 
southern part they are in the Kecamatan Sangatta Selatan 
and Rantau Pulung.
(304-3)
At each stage of the activity, impact management actions 
are carried to manage the impact so that it is safe and in 
accordance with the rules.
The 
plant species planted in the reclamation area are selected 
based on the land cover function which is in accordance 
with their designation.
In 2020, the area of land cleared by KPC was 2,107.75 
hectares with a cumulative area of 30,641.29 hectares, 
while the reclamation area was 1,697.48 hectares, an 
increase from the previous year which was 1,085.40 
hectares with a cumulative area in 2020 reaching 11,817.27 
hectares.
The number of trees planted was 1,167,254, an 
increase from 909,908 in the previous year.
Arutmin pun melakukan rehabilitasi 
On the other hand, by the end of 2020 the total area of 
land that Arutmin had cleared for mining activities and 
its supporting facilities reached approximately 15,928 
hectares.
Of the total disturbed land area, until the end of 
2020 an area of 1,111.2 hectares had been rehabilitated, 
an increase from the previous year’s 620.9 hectares with 
a cumulative 8,415 hectares of land had been reorganized 
and approximately 7,645 hectares had been planted.
The 
cumulative ratio of land that has been laid out to clear 
was 52.8%, while the ratio of revegetated land to the total 
open area was 48%.
During 2020, planting 
was carried out in a river basin area of approximately 
568.3 hectares with 473,971 trees and a cumulative 
area up to 2020 covering 1,225.9 hectares with a total 
of 1,502,904 trees.
The watershed rehabilitation area is 
located in Banjar District, Tanah Laut and Tanah Bumbu, 
South Kalimantan Province.
The number of natural 
tree species and revegetation that results in the 16 
reclamation areas varied considerably.
The presence of 
understorey species in the post-mining reclamation area 
is very important, because it can invite wild animals to 
find food and seek shelter.
The value of tree biodiversity is 
moderate, that is 1-3.
Nama Spesies
Kategori
Rusa Sambar (Rusa Unicolor)
VU
Kijang Muncak (Muntiacus Muntjak)
LC
Kucing Kuwuk (Prionailurus Bengalensis)
LC
Kucing Batu (Pardofelis Marmorata)
NT
Owa Kalawat (Hylobates Muelleri)
EN
Landak Raya (Hystrix Brachyura)
LC
Trenggiling Peusing (Manis Javanica)
CR
Orangutan (Pongo Pygmaeus)
CR
Pelanduk Napu (Tragulus Napu)
LC
Beruang Madu (Helarctos Malayanus)
VU
PROTECTION OF FLORA AND FAUNA SPECIES
From the 16 reclamation areas in KPC, 24 species of 
mammals have been inhabited.
This number has increased 
by 3 species during the span of 3 years of observation.
Of 
the 24 species, 11 of them are protected and considered to 
have relatively high economic value, so the protection of 
animals and their conservation is very important.
With an index value of 3.14 units, which 
means a high biodiversity value (H ‘> 3).
With a biodiversity index of 1.987 (H ‘= 1-3, biodiversity is 
classified as moderate).
Pollination of orchids naturally takes a very long time, 
and the risk of failure is greater due to wind and weather 
factors.
The program, 
which was started in 2012, has conserved 35 species of 
orchids.
In addition, 1,444 orchids have been returned to 
the Batulicin site reclamation area.
Senakin Mine is collaborating with the South Kalimantan 
 
Budidaya Anggrek Meratus dengan Kultur Jaringan.
This program can increase the number of meratus orchids 
compared to conventional assisted pollination.
Habitat conservation of White Forehead Lutung (Presbytis 
Frontata), Red Lutung (Presbytis Ribucunda), and Sambar 
Deer (Cervus Unicolor).
Natural Resources Conservation Agency (BKSDA) to protect biodiversity in the Kelumpang Bay Nature Reserve (CATK).
Until now, the number of 
sambar deer in captivity consists of 9 female deer and 4 
male deer with the longest horns of 50 cm.
From November 2013 to August 2014, 
research was conducted on the presence of orangutans.
Research discovered 13 different individuals, 4 adult 
males, 4 adult females, 2 adolescents and 3 babies.
Pinang Dome Conservation Area
Most of this conservation area is young secondary forest, 
with an area of ± 9.69 km2.
Some of KPC’s efforts in this area 
include internal recognition of the area as conservation 
areas, securing the area, making observation paths, 
restoring and enriching it, research and collaboration.
Now the area has a variety of fauna, including beruk 
(Macaca nemestrina), muncak deer (Muntiacus muntjak), 
hedgehogs 
(Hystrix 
brachyura), 
coconut 
squirrels 
(Callosciurus notatus), horned napu (Tragulus napu), 
tercat squirrel (Tupaia picta), Orangutan (Pongo pygmaeus 
morio).
Murung and Swarga Bara Arboretum Conservation 
Areas
Murung Arboretum is a post-mining area, covering an area 
of ±0.24 km2.
Tanjung Bara Mangrove Conservation Area
This area covers ± 3.83 km2.
Massive 
exploitation of mangroves has made this area a fortress 
for vital mangrove biodiversity.
The area can support life, provide 
space for shelter and food.
Tanjung Pemancingan Arboretum Conservation Area
The Tanjung Pemancingan Arboretum is located in the 
NPLCT coal port, covering an area of 5.05 hectares.
Asam Asam Integrated Conservation Area
This 1.5 hectare conservation area is located in the 
Asamasam Mine.
This is a conservation area for deer 
breeding, arboretum and kelulut honeybee cultivation
ENVIRONMENTAL COSTS IN 2020 
 
GRIEVANCE MECHANISM FOR ENVIRONMENTAL 
PROBLEMS
Environmental problems affecting the surrounding 
community are communicated directly to the External 
Relations.
The external relations 
section then submits complaints to the environmental 
department for further action.
As a world-class coal mining company, BUMI is committed to 
supporting and contributing to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals”.
Hubungan baik ini dapat dibentuk dari adanya 
OVERVIEW OF COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT AND 
DEVELOPMENT GOVERNANCE
BUMI realizes that coal mining operations have an 
impact on social aspects.
BUMI assigns the CSR 
and sustainability division to supervise the social impact 
analysis process carried out by KPC and Arutmin.
BUMI has felt 
the impact of the company’s financial losses caused by 
violations of social aspects committed by business units.
in relation to the implementation of the community 
empowerment and development program developed by 
BUMI and its business units.
They are the keys to maintaining the company’s 
sustainability.
In the midst of business uncertainty, in the 2020 period, 
BUMI and its business units continue to maintain priority 
programs for social development and empowerment 
to realize economic independence for the lives of local 
communities.
59 of 2017 on 
the Implementation of the Achievement of Sustainable 
Development Goals as the basis for the preparation 
of work programs for community development and 
empowerment.
The 
Social Responsibility Policy and Procedure version 1.0 
is a clear proof of our compliance with the Financial 
Services Authority Regulation No.
51/POJK.03/2017 on 
the Implementation of Sustainable Finance for Financial 
Service Institutions, Issuers, and Public Companies, 
article 1 paragraph 12.
That social and Environmental 
Responsibility or CSR is a commitment to participate in 
sustainable economic development in order to improve 
the quality of life and a healthy environment, benefitting 
both for the Company itself, the local community, and 
society in general.
Government Regulation Number 47 of 2012 on Social 
and Environmental Responsibility of Limited Liability 
Companies
3.
25 of 2007 on Investment; and
4.
We believe that increasing public trust and welfare is our 
highest point of achievement.
We realize that this approach is the most effective and 
sustainable in actualizing community empowerment and 
development.
BUMI’S RESILIENCE BY CONTRIBUTING TO THE 
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
In 2020, we restructured our approach strategy in 
contributing to the fulfillment of the SDGs.
This strategy 
change was carried out to meet the expectations of 
stakeholders and ensure that BUMI’s efforts in fulfilling 
the SDGs can be more optimal.
In previous years, the 
Company’s efforts to fulfill the SDGs were based on an 
analysis of the implementation of the Company’s CSR 
program which was then linked to the objectives in the 
SDGs.
Aligning our business objectives with the long-term 
interests of our stakeholders and the wider community 
is critical to BUMI’s future success.
We believe we can contribute to the United Nations 
Sustainable Development Goals by being a leader in the 
areas where we can create the greatest impact.
We make 
this effort as part of our commitment to move forward in 
optimizing the Company’s contribution to community and 
environment.
They are 
agribusiness development, small and medium business 
development, capacity building for government and 
community institutions, health, education and training, 
infrastructure and nature, and cultural preservation.
We 
have 
a 
social 
responsibility 
system based on a set of policies, 
vision and mission, and code of 
conduct.
• TOP Leader on CSR Commitment 2020 for Bapak Ari S. 
Hudaya.
(President Director / Top Leader in companies, 
who are considered have a proven record and high 
commitment in supporting the CSR policy system, 
governance, and the success of CSR implementation in 
the company) from National Committee on Governance 
Policy and TOP Business Magazine – August 2020.
Champion for Mining Issuers in the Environmental 
category.
Champion for Mining Issuers in the Governance 
category.
•	 TOP Leader on CSR Commitment 2020 for Mr. Ari S. 
Hudaya.
(President Director/Top Leader in companies, 
who are considered to have a proven record and high 
commitment in supporting the CSR policy system, 
governance, and implementation in the company) from 
National Committee on Governance Policy and TOP 
Business Magazine – August 2020.
Champion for Mining Issuers in the Environmental 
category.
Champion for Mining Issuers in the Governance 
category.
Kaltim Prima Coal
In 2020, KPC received a National Award Certificate for 
Indonesia CSR Award (ICA-2020) Platinum Category in the 
Core field of Human Rights with the KPC Wellness Program 
(KPC Fitness Program) from the CFCD (Corporate Forum 
for Community Development).
Arutmin
In 2020, Arutmin received 13 awards from the Indonesia 
CSR Award, consisting of:
•	 Platinum for Empowerment and protection of 
workers - Zero accident, HIV/AIDs program in the work 
environment.
Work healthy and safe with “SIAP”
•	 Platinum for cataract surgery for marginal communities
•	 Platinum for Meratus Orchid Conservation in the 
Batulicin reclamation area district Mantewe and 
Simpang Empat, Tanah Bumbu  Regency South 
Kalimantan.
•	 Platinum for Executive Level (Field) CDO (individual)
•	 Gold for Clean Water Program in simpang empat district 
Tanbu Regency South Kalimantan.
•	 Gold for the construction of the KM 39 bridge “The 39 
bridge of hope”
•	 Platinum for the Preservation of Lutung Dati Putih based 
on a partnership with the South Kalimantan BKSDA.
•	 Platinum for social investment based on “Islamic 
Financial Services Cooperative BMT Agro Banua”.
•	 Gold for the Satui Peduli Scholarship (Satui district, 
Tanbu Regency South Kalimantan)
•	 Platinum 
for 
“HPMT 
(Mining 
Community 
Empowerment)”- based social investment in a 
sustainable and independent manner.
•	 Platinum for Empowerment of marine friendly youth 
groups and other stakeholders in coral reef transplant 
programs.
Sarang Tiung Village and Arutmin NPLCT 
operational area.
171
Building resiliency amid uncertainty to maintain sustainability
•	 Platinum untuk Kampung Hijau Madani berbasis 
pemberdayaan perempuan.
•	 Platinum for Kampung Hijau Madani based on women’s 
empowerment.
Pulau Laut Sigam and 
Pulau Laut Utara district, Kotabaru, South Kalimantan.
•	 Platinum for CSR Village ‘Empowerment and Income 
Improvement 
of 
Poor 
Household 
Communities 
independently and sustainably on a group basis’.
(BRMS) handed over assistance in the form of PPE to 
Toto Hospital in Bone Bolango - Gorontalo Province 
This activity is a form of BUMI’s concern and support 
for medical personnel as the front line in handling 
Covid-19.
It is hoped that this assistance can improve the 
performance of medical personnel and create a healthy 
society.
and 100 bottles of liquid handwash.
•	
The assistance was handed over by company 
representatives to Governor Rusli Habibie as Chair of 
the Covid 19 Task Force at the Governor’s house.
The medical equipment assistance 
provided included 200 hazmat, 115 protective glasses, 
160 face shields, 2,500 cloth masks, 12 boxes of surgical 
masks, 40 boxes of protective gloves, 60 pairs of boots, 
10 thermo guns, 2 ventilators, and 8,000 rapid test kits.
250 million and for the national 
level, Rp.
5 billion was provided through the Bakrie 
Amanah Foundation.
The assistance provided 
was in the form of 2,048 food packages.
The assistance 
provided was a collaboration between KPC employees 
and employees of the Prima Swarga Bara Education 
Foundation (YPPSB).
Assistance is provided to Puskesmas, hospitals and health facilities.
pada area 
ini berfokus pada sektor penguatan kapasitas penerima 
BUMI COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT AND 
DEVELOPMENT (CSR) PROGRAM 2020
The 
community 
empowerment 
and 
development 
programs, that we and our business units have actualized, 
actively involve the community itself, especially in the 
surrounding areas of the Company’s operations.
On a 
regular basis, we continue to develop and plan a series of 
programs that can have a huge positive impact on society 
and the environment.
The contents are updated once a 
year.
The permanent housing development program refers 
to the 4th SDG (Quality Education) and the 10th SDG 
(Reduced Inequalities).
Community Based Waste Management
Move forward to a more independent society.
so that outcomes of the project were achieved.
The permanent housing development program refers to 
the 11th SDG (Sustainable Cities and Communities) and 
the 8th SDG (Decent Work and Economic Growth).
Citra Palu Minerals 
(CPM) from the Bakri Business Group (KUB) collaborated 
with Habitat for Humanity to build ten permanent 
housing units (Huntap) for victims of the earthquake in 
Sigi Regency, Central Sulawesi.
The ten Huntap units 
were built in Lolu Village, Sigi Biromaru District, Sigi 
Regency.
Ten heads of families who received the housing 
were underprivileged residents who previously had their 
houses heavily damaged by the earthquake on September 
28, 2018.
The permanent housing development program refers to 
the 11th SDG (Sustainable Cities and Communities).
Cleft lip and cleft palate surgery in Bogor and Tangerang
PT Bumi Resources Tbk.
Currently, more than 50 
patients have been operated on.
Clefts can involve the lips and/
or the roof of the mouth, which consists of the hard and 
soft palates.
As part of PT BUMI Resources Tbk’s corporate social 
responsibility (CSR) program, in terms of health and 
to contribute to the achievement of Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) No.
Indonesian children through cleft lip 
and cleft palate surgery.
The 
activity was carried out in collaboration with Hermina 
Galaxy Bekasi Hospi-tal for 50 patients.
Mass circumcision was intended for 100 children 
and in collaboration with Hermina Galaxy Bekasi Hospital.
Kaltim Prima Coal
KPC’s CSR program refers to the principles contained 
in ISO 26000:2010 Guidance on Social Responsibility.
The usual face-to-face 
counseling activities were replaced with counseling through GWP 
radio and RPD Kutim.
The carried-out programs 
include providing scholarships, improving educational 
infrastructure, technical assistance in curriculum 
development and school management, and training for 
trainers.
scholarships at the master’s level, and 3 students at the 
doctoral level.
To support the improvement of human and community 
resources in East Kutai, KPC in collaboration with the 
East Kutai Manpower and Transmigration Office, held 
a Mechanical Apprenticeship Program.
This program covers 
semenization of 20 alleys in the Jl.Kelimutu area, construction of drainage, and 450m long sidewalks.
Bangunan yang berukuran 12.5 x 22 meter ini 
berfungsi untuk menggantikan bangunan kantor desa sebelumnya.| Handover of the Singa Gembara Village office built by KPC to the East Kutai Regional 
Government.
The building measuring 12.5 x 22 meters serves to replace the previous village office building.
Empowerment in Agribusiness Economics
This program aims to create and develop agribusiness 
activities based on local potential, including agriculture, 
plantations, fisheries, and livestock.
Post-mining land utilization programs for agribusiness 
in the form of cattle breeding, laying hens, and fisheries.
In 2020, KPC provided assistance to 9 farmer groups with 
a total of 197 members who cultivated wet rice.
The total 
land managed by the group was an average of 167.5 ha 
out of a total estimated 346 ha of potential land.
The total 
harvest in 2020 reached 675,570 kg of grain.
Commodities that were featured in 2020 
included watermelons, onions, tomatoes, cucumbers, 
vegetables, and other horticulture.
The total estimated 
turnover reached Rp.
East Kutai has a sizable cassava cultivation potential with a 
large area, especially in Rantau Pulung District.
Continuing 
the program from the previous year, in 2020 KPC provided 
assistance to 6 farmer groups with a total of 145 members.
Some of the activities carried out include:
•	
Training on the production process of cassava food/
feed for the KUBE-PKH cluster
•	
Formalizing the structural membership of the Cassava 
Cooperative “Berkah Gawe Sabumi”
•	
Field study to the cassava flour industry in Gresik and 
building cooperation in the gaplek market
•	
Provision of stimulants for food/feed cassava 
production facilities in the form of waring, artco, 
diskmill, hammermill, UV plastic, wood material for 
3 clusters of cassava food/feed in Rantau Pulung and 
Sangatta
•	
Provision of stimulants for elephant cassava seeds 
and cassettes covering an area of 24 ha for 2 groups in 
Rantau Pulung and 2 groups in North Sangatta.
This learning is expected to encourage local 
contractors to continue to improve their professionalism 
and competitiveness so that they can develop business 
with other parties and not limited to East Kutai.
In 2020, KPC provided assistance in the form of a workshop 
and the installation of batik waste to the Galuh Kartini 
Batik Studio and the Maju Bersama Batik Studio.
Through the Composting Training Center (CTC) program, 
activities carried out in 2020 included:
•	
Household waste collection from 723 families in the 
KPC-GPL residence
•	
Production of 48 tons of compost
•	
Training on compost processing techniques to 736 
residents, university students, and school students.
•	
Providing services to 71 waste bank customers
•	
Trial of a distillator machine, a machine that produces 
fuel (gasoline, diesel and gas oil) with plastic raw 
materials.
•	
Stimulant compost processing machine, takakura 
basket, medicinal plant seeds, vegetable seeds in 3 
Dasawisma
•	
Facilities and infrastructure assistance and stimulant 
for Adiwiyata activities at 005 Sangkima Elementary 
School in the form of nursery and garbage bins.
Tanah Laut, Tanah Bumbu dan Kotabaru 
Institutional
Fostering existing institutions in the community by 
training and developing the business aspect.
Assisting in 
administrative requirements and licensing (legality).
They include the construction of wallet nests, 
chicken coops, duck coops and their accessories, road 
maintenance, drainage, school buildings, places of 
worship, as the means to im-prove the economy and 
welfare of the community.
The MSH-CSR team consists 
of an Advisory Committee and an Implementing Body 
consisting of government officials, Regional Leadership 
Meeting (Muspida) and representatives of companies 
operating in East Kutai.
Through the Speak 
Up System, we provide an opportunity for the public 
to complain about incompatibility in our operational 
performance and those of our business units.
In handling 
complaints, we are committed to avoiding discriminatory 
actions.
In developing the Speak Up System, we prioritize 
the principles of legitimacy, being accessible to the 
complainant, short handling time, fair, transparent, and 
problem solving oriented.
“Developing an employment strategy to create local employees who have competence and 
professionalism is BUMI’s commitment.
Kami berharap dengan 
pelatihan tersebut dapat meningkatkan kesadaran 
The year 2020 was an early milestone where we began to 
identify and map jobs to transform employment as the 
consequence of industrial revolution 4.0.
Balancing between realizing 
the commitment to create jobs for the local community 
and the obligation to prioritize digital technology is the 
toughest challenge that we have to solve.
We continue 
to strive to provide digital work facilities and conduct a 
series of digital application trainings to improve employee 
competence.
For this reason, we 
hope that the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
can be an improvement material for business units and 
contractors in order to realize work productivity and 
ensure a comfortable work environment as inline with the 
BUMI Code of Conduct Version 4.0.
The training 
203
Building resiliency amid uncertainty to maintain sustainability
dan melekatkan nilai-nilai pedoman perilaku menuju 
peningkatan kompetensi dan produktivitas.
Team Building Program and Code of Conduct 
socialization
2.
Implementation of the Employee Assistance Program 
(EAP)
 
HR Management Performance
In developing human resources, we strive to comply with 
applicable labor regulations.
Information on the composition of employees based on 
employment contracts (permanent and temporary) and 
type of employment contract (full-time and part-time), and 
gender are not presented.
KPC berhasil mengembangkan sistem dan prosedur 
OUR GENDER DIVERSITY - WOMAN IN MINING 
 
 
The mining industry is a world of work that is identic 
with masculine characters, and naturally the workers 
are more suitable for men.
As the largest coal mining company in Indonesia, Kaltim 
Prima Coal (KPC) has the value of “gender equality” in 
the recruitment process, career path and placement of 
its workforce.
In its implementation, through 
rigorous selection and training, KPC has succeeded in 
placing a number of women as dump truck operators.
Through this success, it proves that KPC has realized the 
policy of respecting BUMI’s human rights version 1.0 to 
elevate the dignity of women who have been identified 
with the weak and vulnerable to human rights violations.
For this reason, 
recruitment is the initial process in realizing quality of 
human resources.
We prepare a clear career path, and open opportunities 
for each individual to develop his career.
Of the total employees who 
terminated the employment relationship, more than half 
had entered retirement age.
In 2020 we facilitated 456 hours of training with a cumulative total of 
22 employees.
The total hours of training carried out by KPC 
were 59,148.5 hours of training for 18,329 employees.
(404-1) 
Below is a table of average training hours based on gender and employee level.
Determination 
of remuneration is based on the classification of 
positions, years of service, workload, work location and 
work performance.
In order to maintain employee loyalty and high 
productivity, we continue to develop an attractive 
remuneration system for employees.
Gradual review and update of the current competency 
model.
Continuous 
improvement 
of 
the 
employee 
development plan.
c.	
Continuous improvement on the implementation of 
employee competency review.
Development of Performance Management System 
model for supervisor and superintendent levels 
in Mining Operations Division and Mining Support 
Division.
c.	
Rollout of Performance Management System in 
Contract Mining Division, Coal Processing & Handling 
Division, and Health, Safety, Environment & Security 
Division.
For this reason, all (100%) of our employees are 
protected by a Collective Labor Agreement.
There are no 
significant risks to the Company’s operations to freedom 
of association and assembly.
To participate in the activities 
of the Labor Union, Employees can apply for permits or 
dispensations.
The granting of permits and dispensations 
has been carefully reviewed and regulated in a Collective 
Labor Agreement (CLA) between the Company and the 
Trade Union which has been approved by the Ministry of 
Manpower and Transmigration.
In addition, as an effort to create and maintain harmonious 
relationships, KPC seeks to involve employees or labor 
unions in formulating most of the company’s policies.
These provisions are in 
accordance with the applicable Company Regulations or 
CLA.
Communication 
to all employees has been carried out by placing 
posters and distributing leaflets to each employee.
Most employees have an optimistic perspective on 
the future of Arutmin.
Periodically, BUMI monitors the performance of KPC, Arutmin and contractors in an effort to protect 
all employees from exposure of COVID-19.
(103-2)
Coal mining is an industry that is characterized as capi-
tal-intensive, technology-intensive and high risk to occu-
pational health and safety.
We strictly monitor 
and follow up on any discrepancy that occurs in the im-
plementation of preventing potential exposure to COVID 
in each workplace.
We implement very strict health protocols during the 
COVID-19 pandemic in BUMI, KPC and Arutmin headquar-
ters.
For this reason, on an ongoing basis, 
through a series of training and seminar, we will continue 
to disseminate the version 1.0 sustainability commitment 
related to these aspects of occupational health and safety.
We expect businesses and supply chains to:
1.
Emphasize the importance of each individual - 
employee or contractor - to be responsible for their 
own safety, and for their colleagues.
Encourage employees to share their workplace 
safety knowledge when they are at home and in their 
community.
Comply with all national and local regulations 
governing occupational health and safety in which the 
business unit operates.
Allocate budget for occupational health and safety 
management.
Ensure the feasibility of mining facilities, infrastructure, 
installations and equipment.
Carry out continuous improvement in the safety 
performance of mining operations in an effort to 
prevent damage to assets and cessation of operations.
Create safe, efficient and productive mining operations.
Encourage 
business 
units 
and 
contractors 
to 
adopt international voluntary standards related to 
occupational health and safety.
These include occupational health and safety risks from 
exploration to post-mining stage.
1 of 1970 concerning Work Safety 
and No.13 of 2003 concerning Manpower, Article 86 
paragraph 2 which emphasizes the company’s obligation 
to carry out occupational safety and health efforts for its 
workers.
For this 
reason, KPC and Arutmin had included aspects of OHS in 
the Collective Labor Agreement (CLA) which was signed by 
the union and management.
The discussion related to OHS has been stated in the CLA 
business unit.
In KPC, of the 14 chapters and 87 articles 
listed in the CLA, there are 7 articles that cover the topic 
of Occupational Health and Safety or about 8% of the total 
discussion in CLA.
This topic is listed in chapter VIII articles 
50-56.
Irfan Fitrianto – SHE
5.
Praditya Ardhiwisesa – SHE
6.
Raja Taufan A.s.r – ENG
10.
Dharma
Henwa
Ragil
Winahyu
(PJO)
Anggota 
•	 Amrih W
•	 M. Zely F
•	 M. Isyra
Kontraktor
PT.
Jonlin 
Baratama 
Hartono 
(PJO)
Anggota 
•	 Muslikun
•	 M. Rizalludin
•	 Gunawan
Kontraktor
PT.
Thiess Contractors Indonesia 
July Osmon S
M Arifin (HSE)
Hidayat (Operasional)
Penanggung Jawab Operasional
PT.
M. Sabirin Noor
2.
Y. Purwanto
4.
M. Zulkarnaen Azwar
6.
Yogi Swara Putra M
PT Arutmin Indonesia
1.
Asep M Ramdan 
2.
M Ramli
KSU Wahana Murni
1.
The incident occurred 
on 15 February 2020 with the victim of 1 contractor 
employee from the CMD Division.
(kali)
Conduct traffic monitoring for KPC vehi-
cles and their contractors in the KPC area 
and its surroundings.
•	 Monitoring of vibration in the work 
environment on employees (times)
1
10
Pencahayaan
Lighting
•	 Perawatan tata pencahayaan secara 
berkala, termasuk perawatan dan 
penggantian lampu-lampu.
( lump sum)   
•	 Air conditioning operation and mainte-
nance in all buildings.
•	 Uji POP (orang)
•	 Uji POM (orang)
•	 Uji POU (orang)
•	 Diklat POP (orang)
•	 Diklat POM (orang)
•	 Diklat POU (orang)
Organizing certification/competency test 
for technical personnel as needed.
(lumpsum)
Assessing the mining plan to be safe and 
efficient.
Conducting surveys and studies 
required to conduct mining technical 
studies.
Conduct slope stability analysis 
studies in the mine area and monitor soil 
movements on a regular basis.
•	 Occupational health campaign through meetings such 
as health talks and other communication media such as 
banners and posters.
•	 Fit challenge program for employees to ensure that 
employees have a healthy lifestyle.
•	 Measurement and monitoring of the work environment.
•	 Implementation of housekeeping programs in the 
workplace by applying the principles of sorting, 
structuring, cleaning, habituating and disciplining.
Arutmin
In accordance with the provisions of the Law No.
•	 Checking the feasibility of mining facilities, 
infrastructure and equipment that have just entered 
the mining operation area through commissioning 
activities.
•	 Ensure that technical personnel who operate mining 
equipment have adequate competence through tests 
of Company Driving Permits (Simper) and Operating 
Permits (SIO).
KETAHANAN BUMI DALAM MEWUJUDKAN LINGKUNGAN KERJA YANG SEHAT DAN AMAN
BUMI Resilience In Creating a Helath and Safe Work Environment
