47 of 2012 
concerning Limited Liability Companies in their 
Obligations to Carry Out Social and Environmental 
Responsibilities.
Minister 
of 
Energy 
and 
Mineral 
Resources 
Regulation No.
41 of 2016 concerning Community 
Development and Empowerment in Mineral and 
Coal Mining Business Activities.
Minister 
of 
Energy 
and 
Mineral 
Resources 
Decree No.
1824 of 2018 concerning Guidelines 
for Implementing Community Development and 
Empowerment Programs.
Wujud kepedulian dan kontribusi Perseroan kepada 
masyarakat sekitar area tambang dibuktikan melalui 
program CSR yang berfokus kepada enam aspek 
bidang, yaitu; Pendidikan, Kesehatan, Kemandirian 
Ekonomi, Sosial Budaya, Pembangunan Infrastruktur 
Through the CSR programs, the Company hopes that its 
existence can provide positive and sustainable impact 
on the communities surrounding the mining area, both 
directly and indirectly.
By 
maintaining and enhancing a harmonious relationship 
between the Company and the surrounding community, 
a conducive situation is expected to be created in order 
to support the Company’s business development and 
sustainable growth.
• Prioritizing the potential of local resources as a 
superior product of empowerment.
• Appling the principle of mutual openness and sense 
of belonging to each empowerment program.
The mining activities of CITA and its Subsidiaries 
are located in Ketapang Regency, West Kalimantan 
Province.
The major expectation from this program is continuous 
improvement of human resources.
CSR programs in the education sector are realized in the 
form of CMI Educational Olympics program, scholarships 
for 
high-achiever 
students, 
teacher’s 
competency 
development training at regency level, operational funding 
for honorary and contracted teachers.
A. Realization of CITA CSR Program in Education 
Sector at Sandai Site
	
The education programs that have been executed by 
the Company focus on the goal to facilitate teaching 
and learning activities and support extracurricular 
activities for students.
Educational Teaching Aids Distribution and School 
Revitalization Program at SDN 23 Sungai Laur, 
Ketapang Regency, West Kalimantan Province.
Tanggung Jawab Sosial Perusahaan
The Corporate Social Responsibility
100
PT Cita Mineral Investindo Tbk    LAPORAN TAHUNAN 2019 ANNUAL REPORT
3.
This scholarship is expected to increase students’ 
enthusiasm for learning so as to improve the quality 
of Human Resources (HR) in the world of education.
K13 Teacher Training Program in Air Upas and 
Marau, Ketapang Regency, West Kalimantan 
Province.
Healthy Nutrition Program and PHBS for 
elementary schools in Air Upas, Ketapang 
Regency, West Kalimantan Province.
Contracted Teacher Incentive Program for 
Schools in Air Upas, Ketapang Regency, West 
Kalimantan Province.
School building revitalization assistance is expected 
to make the learning atmosphere more comfortable.
c.	 The assistance of teaching aids  is expected to improve 
the ability of students to absorb the subjects explained 
by their teacher because they can directly visualize 
them with the aids provided.
Clean water 
facilities are provided to support the fulfillment of 
consumable and usable water for the community.
Tanggung Jawab Sosial Perusahaan
The Corporate Social Responsibility
102
PT Cita Mineral Investindo Tbk    LAPORAN TAHUNAN 2019 ANNUAL REPORT
2.
PMT Socialization Program in the Village of Sandai 
Kiri, Istana and Muara Jekak, Sandai District, 
Ketapang Regency, West Kalimantan Province.
Provision of Supplementary Food (PMT) for 
Toddlers in Sungai Putih Village.
Free Medical Treatment and Nutrition Counseling 
Program in Teluk Bayur Village, Sungai Laur 
District, Ketapang Regency, West Kalimantan 
Province.
KPI (Key Performance Indicator) of Health Program 
Health is an important part in building the community, 
both physically and mentally.
The current health program is focused on 
preventive activities.
With the PMT program, the number of children 
under the below red line criteria no longer exists, 
and the interest of mothers to bring their babies for 
weighting is increasing.
The followings are some of the realization of 
economic programs at Sandai Site:
1.
Fishing Gear Aid Program for Fishermen in 
Melano Bay Village, Simpang Hilir District, 
Kayong 
Utara 
Regency, 
West 
Kalimantan 
Province.
d.	 Adanya diversiﬁkasi produk binaan.
Provision 
of 
Seedlings 
and 
Agricultural 
Equipment for Food Security Garden Program 
in Mekar Jaya Village, Sungai Melayu Rayak 
District, Ketapang Regency, West Kalimantan 
Province.
KPI (Key Performance Indicator) of Economic 
Program
The community independence in the region can be 
built by building a strong economic base.
Preparing 
an economically strong community requires intensive 
assistance, especially at the initiation and strengthening 
stages.
The creation of MSMEs that raise local potential.
The increased production capacity of the fostered 
groups at the development stage.
d.	 Diversification of the fostered products.
Social and Cultural Program
The Company, through its CSR program in the socio-
cultural sector, has realized a number of activities, 
including the activities of beradat, tepung tawar, mandi 
safar, and Indonesian Independence Day activities.
This activity serves to further strengthen the 
relationship between the Company and the community.
Selamatan and Halal Bi Halal Program in Tersus 
Matan.
Tanggung Jawab Sosial Perusahaan
The Corporate Social Responsibility
106
PT Cita Mineral Investindo Tbk    LAPORAN TAHUNAN 2019 ANNUAL REPORT
Bidang Sosial:
1.
Basic Food Donation Program for Flood Victims 
in Sandai District, Ketapang Regency, West 
Kalimantan Province.
B.	 Realization of CITA’s CSR Program in Social and 
Cultural Sector at Air Upas Site
	
CSR program in the social and cultural sector at Air 
Upas Site that has been carried out by the Company 
during 2019 includes cultural, religious, and social 
activities.
MSMEs and Indonesian Independence Day 
Competition Program in Air Upas District, 
Ketapang Regency, West Kalimantan Province.
KPI (Key Performance Indicator) of Social and 
Cultural Program
Culture is the identity of a nation.
The diversity of forms 
of social and cultural interaction is an extraordinary 
potential in maintaining the integrity of a nation.
With 
due observance to these, the Company is committed to 
managing this potential so that it can be a support for 
the Company’s sustainability.
The holding of annual routine traditional events 
conducted by the community.
The community can express the traditional event 
with gratitude and involve all parties including the 
Company as a form of trust in the Company.
c.	 Cultural activities that are held are based on local 
wisdom that has been maintained.
B.	 Realization of CITA’s CSR Program in Infrastructure 
Sector at Air Upas Site
	
In 2019, the Company sought to improve public 
facilities and infrastructure at Air Upas Site.
KPI (Key Performance Indicator) of Infrastructure 
Program
Infrastructure is an important part of a region’s 
advancement.
The function of infrastructure 
development is as equitable development and economic 
equality.
Environmental Conservation Program
The Company realizes that its business is very closely 
related to the environment and nature.
The environmental conservation policy 
has been implemented by the Company through 
sustainable programs to maintain the sustainability 
and balance of existing natural resources.
KPI (Key Performance Indicator) of Environmental 
Conservation Program
As a company based on the utilization of natural 
resources, the Company has been committed to 
protecting and preserving a sustainable environment.
41 of 2016 concerning Community 
Development and Empowerment in Mineral and Coal 
Mining Business Activities.
Educational 
Facilities 
and 
Infrastructure 
Assistance 
Programs 
ranging 
from 
kindergarten / early childhood to high school 
such as educational facilities for Mutiara 
Tengar PAUD, educational teaching aids for 
students in 6 elementary schools in the Mekar 
Utama village, computer desk assistance for 
students of SMAN 1 Kendawangan, assistance 
for table chairs and bookshelves for the Attaqwa 
Kendawangan MTS library.
Awareness of the importance of education for 
school-age children program
b.
The program to improve environmental health 
through the improvement and construction of 
sanitation facilities and awareness campaigns 
for healthy living habits such as assistance 
to clean water facilities for Sungai Gantang 
Hamlet and clean water facilities phase 2 for 
Sungai Tengar Hamlet.
Home Industry Development Program
d.	 Field of Public Facilities (Infrastructure)
	
Development program and improvement of public 
facilities that support other fields.
Community grievance sector which includes 
community grievance management programs
b.
Social and Cultural Program
1.
Social and religious strengthening program
2.
Cultural 
preservation 
program 
such 
as 
assistance for the renovation of the Silingan 
Hamlet Dayak traditional house, material 
assistance for the renovation of the Faturahman 
Mosque in Pesaguan Kiri Village.
c.	 Field of community institutions which include 
community institutional strengthening program.
Bantuan hand traktor dan benih pertanian bagi Kelompok Tani Maju Selaras 
Dusun Sungai Gantang / Hand tractor and agricultural seed assistance for the 
Farmer Group in the Maju Selaras Sungai Gantang Hamlet.
forming CSR groups 
based on interests 
and talents.
Fund assistance 
rolling in as an effort 
to increase capacity.
The legality of 
institutional ties to 
associated services.
Diversification of 
businesses that have 
been built.
The performance of 
the group business 
is characterized by 
healthy financial 
statements 
and improved 
performance 
(innovation and 
marketing).
Initiation Phase: 
is the initial formation stage where community 
involvement in the empowerment program is 
needed.
At this stage, the community is required 
to be aware of the problems that occur in their 
environment and unite their goals in order to find 
solutions to the problems that occur.
PPM Team Capacity Building and Conflict Handling
As an effort to increase human resource capacity, 
especially in the community empowerment sector, 
where the activities are under the coordination of CITA’s 
CSR Division, the Company has carried out capacity 
building activities for its employees by participating in 
Education and Training (DIKLAT) activities organized by 
PPSDM Geominerba, Ministry of Energy and Mineral 
Resources in Bandung in September 2019.
Tanggung Jawab Sosial Perusahaan
The Corporate Social Responsibility
