In 2023, CITA focused on sustainability strategies as efforts 
to maintain and expand our business.
This step aimed 
 
to fulfill our stakeholder’s expectations in sustainable 
practices.
We will continue create Sustainability 
value through sustainable development.
In a long term, 
we hope to transform into an innovation led company by 
implementing sustainable operations and tackling climate 
change.
“Keramat” 
sustainable 
agriculture 
aims to prevent illegal land clearing and 
land burning activities.
CITA has implemented initiatives that are in line with SDGs.
In 2023, we have identified 11 SDGs.
This mapping is not 
meant to claim any measurable impact of our activities on 
SDGs.
claim on the actual measureable impact on SDGs 
achievement.
Total beneficiaries in 
2023 were 5 farmers.
MSME 
Program 
for 
Women 
Empowerment 
(Krumpe 
and 
Raja 
Herbal),  local community business 
development program through tempeh 
chips business (Krumpe) and herbal drinks 
(Raja Herbal), with a total of 5 beneficiaries 
in 2023.
Ensure women’s full and effective 
participation and equal opportunities for 
leadership at all levels of decision-making 
in political, economic, and social life.
8.3 
Promote 
development-oriented 
policies that support productive activities, 
decent job creation, entrepreneurship, 
creativity and innovation, and encourage 
the formalization and growth of micro-, 
small, 
and 
medium-sized 
enterprises, 
including through access to financial 
services.
6.1 By 2030, achieve universal and 
equitable access to safe and affordable 
drinking water for all.
d.	 Meningkatkan kualitas kesehatan 
masyarakat
	
Improving the quality of public 
health
Pembagian 
makanan 
tambahan 
bagi balita, pengobatan gratis, dan 
penyuluhan pola hidup bersih dan sehat.
Supplementary 
food 
distribution 
for toddlers, free medical treatment, 
and counseling on clean and healthy 
lifestyles.
3.9 By 2030, substantially reduce the 
number of deaths and illnesses from 
hazardous chemicals and air, water, and 
soil pollution and contamination.
Education 
program 
by 
granting 
scholarships 
for 
underprivileged 
and 
outstanding students at the elementary 
to high school/vocational levels, incentive 
assistance for honorary and contract 
teachers, and renovation of school buildings 
with a total of 66 beneficiaries in 2023.
4.1 By 2030, ensure that all girls and 
boys 
complete 
free, 
equitable, 
and 
quality primary and secondary education 
leading to relevant and effective learning 
outcomes.
Revitalization program for roads, bridges, 
and access roads, with total revitalized 
roads reached 93.20 km long.
Random fatigue testing for employees 
as an effort to mitigate the occurrence of 
accidents at operational sites.
8.8 Protect labour rights and promote 
safe and secure working environments for 
all workers, including migrant workers, in 
particular women migrants, and those in 
precarious employment.
CITA’s organized training that covers all levels of 
the 
company’s 
positions, 
from 
the 
highest 
management 
level to entry-level employees.
Executive Board ESG Training 
CITA’s Board of Directors attended an executive briefing to enhance their knowledge and understanding 
about implementation of environmental, social, and governance principles, through engagement with external 
experts.
This activity was conducted on Wednesday, September 13, 2023 with the topics of sustainability 
concepts and principles, current issues related to ESG, and the Company’s ESG strategy.
The increasing average employee 
training hours reflects CITA’s commitment to fostering the 
professional growth and competency development of its 
workforce.
To 
achieve this, we apply the occupational health and safety 
(OHS) standards as an integral part of our health and safety 
policy and Mining Safety Technical Guidelines.
This approach assists the Company 
in identifying hazards and minimizing risks to the lowest 
and acceptable level.
To identify and mitigate any potential accident risks in 
our 
operational 
locations, 
we 
conduct 
regular 
Hazard Identification and Risk Assessments (HIRA) and 
random fatigue test for employees and contractors.
In order to prevent incidents, we proactively carry out 
behavior-based safety (BBS) training.
Occupational Health and Safety Training (403-5)
CITA supports and promotes employee awareness of the 
importance of work safety during operational activities for 
both the Company’s own employees and contractors.
The clinic is accessible for 24 hours to respond 
any emergencies, conduct periodic health checks, and 
health consultations.
To respect data confidentiality, we 
ensure  all medical records are made confidential.
As part of our responsibility to ensure our employees’ safety 
and health, CITA conducts random fatigue test for 
employees and contractors, primarily those working in 
shifts.
In 2023, 
we achieved zero fatailities and major incidents 
both 
for 
the 
Company’s 
employees 
and 
our 
contractors.
COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT
The Company formulates Community Development 
Program (CDP) through conducting consultation and 
directly involving the community.
The priority programs are determined based on the 
Company’s capacity and resources.
3 of 2020 on the Amendment to Law No.
4 of 
2009 on Mineral and Coal Mining; Minister of Energy and 
Mineral Resources Decree No.
1824 of 2018 on Guidelines 
for the Implementation of Community Development 
and Empowerment; and Minister of Energy and Mineral 
Resources Regulation No.
41 of 2016 on Community 
Development and Empowerment in Mineral and Coal 
Mining Business Activities.
Our largest community investment in 2023 was 
in infrastructure program, due to revitalization of roads, 
buildings, and public facilities.
In this stage, the Company’s 
involvement  will be diminished, encompassing the 
investment 
provided.
In 
addition, 
the 
intended 
beneficiaries of the program have been shifted to be 
under the authority of the relevent agencies, so they are 
no longer listed as our beneficiaries.
Program Overview
Health Program
The Company has designed and implemented health 
programs, such as in supporting provision of clean water 
facilities and infrastructure; clean and healthy lifestyle 
counseling (PHBS); medical services; and blood donor 
programs.
We constantly collaborate with the local 
Health Care Center (“Puskesmas”) in implementing health 
programs for the community.
All of these running programs 
are intended to accelerate the provision and improvement 
of of public health.
CITA initiated programs to provide infrastructure for clean 
water including supporting facilities, such as, water pump, 
pipelines, and water tower in 17 villages at Ketapang 
Regency, West Kalimantan.
This program aims to improve 
community’s clean and healthy lifestyle (PHBS).
The success of this program has enabled CITA to win a 
Gold Category award in the Corporate Social Responsibility 
(CSR) and Sustainable Village Development (SVD) 2023 
event.
This prestigious event was organised by the Ministry 
of Villages, Development of Disadvantaged Regions and 
Transmigration and the Indonesian Social Sustainability 
Forum (ISSF).
By 2023, CITA’s health programs have been successfully 
benefiting 590 beneficiaries, consisting of community from 
the surrounding of the Company’s operations.
Education program
In education, CITA actively supports programs to improve 
the quality of education for the surrounding community in 
our operational locations.
School revitalization, until 2023, the Company
have revitalized 15 schools located in ring-1 of the
Company’s operational area;
2.
Problem Based Learning Program targeted for
vocational students who have potential to support
agriculture and livestock programs.
This program reflects 
the Company’s social responsibility to the community in 
encouraging the improvement of quality human resources.
In 2023, the capacity building program for teacher and 
teaching staff have reached 42 beneficiaries and we 
received positive responses.
At the Corporate Social Responsibility Awards, or BISRA 
2023, organized by Bisnis Indonesia daily, CITA was 
awarded Gold Champion in the Economic Element 
category for its CSR Program in Education.
The program 
includes school revitalization and contributing efforts to 
improve the quality of education.
The program 
implementation includes elementary school, junior high 
school, and vocational school levels in Air Upas, Marau, 
Sandai, Sungai Laur Districts, Ketapang Regency, and West 
Kalimantan Province.
CITA continued to provide educational scholarships for 66 
students in Ketapang Regency, West Kalimantan, who have 
made achievements at school.
The scholarship program is a manifestation of the 
Company’s support for the development, of children’s 
intelligence.
Economic Improvement Progam
In 2023, CITA continued its initiatives to drive local 
economic potential through capacity building for Micro, 
Medium, and Small Enterprises (MSMEs).
In 2023, CITA’s total investment for this program 
amounted to IDR315,000,000 for 90 beneficiaries.
We aim 
to continue to provide assistance until the beneficiaries 
are independently developed to realize the economic 
improvement of the local community.
CITA has developed MSMEs program focused on women’s 
empowerment through the “Krumpe” and “Raja Herbal” 
programs.
The Krumpe program is a community business 
which processes and produces tempeh chips that are locally 
marketed, and this has obtained an official small business 
license.
The number of local women involved in this program 
is 5.
This business is named “Raja Herbal” 
and has been assisting 7 women beneficiaries from the local 
community.
Infrastructure Program (201-1)
The infrastructure program is being implemented to support 
provision of access and public infrastructure facilities in the 
village surrounding our operational locations, including the 
construction of public facilities, road access, and electricity 
installations.
CITA’s support in this aspect is expected to improve 
access to public facilities and facilitate community’s 
economy to grow and improve their welfare.
Environmental Conservation Program
The Company’s nature conservation activities include 
reforestation activities on critical land to maintain 
groundwater availability.
By 2023, we have managed 4,950 
m2 planted area with a total of 1,060 trees.
The species 
are bamboo tree, mango tree, guava tree, jackfuit 
tree, cempedak tree, and duku tree.
Our 
Community 
Relations 
division 
works 
with 
relevant departments to examine and follow up on 
community grievances 
or 
requests.
The company is committed to 
resolving the issue immediately, and now working with 
HSE Department to solve it.
We 
understand 
that 
the 
mining 
industry 
impacts 
the 
environment.
The 
environmental indicators we monitor are referring to the 
Company’s environmental impact assessment (EIA).
at the Company’s operational location.
22 of 
2021 on the Implementation of Environmental Protection 
and Management, is not classified as hazardous waste.
We alsoregularly monitor the bauxite residue 
produced in our operation, so that it will stay beneath the 
capacity of the settling ponds.
These work to 
prevent water from overflowing into the surrounding 
environment.
WATER MANAGEMENT (303-1)
CITA understands its important role as a company to conduct 
responsible water management.
Our primary water sources for operations and supporting 
activities are surface water and groundwater.
Based on the 
data from the World Resource Intitute (WRI) Water Atlas, 
our operational areas are considered located in the low 
water stress levels (accessed on December 31, 2023).
To 
ensure 
adequate 
water 
quantity 
and 
quality, 
CITA 
implements circular water management at our 
bauxite ore washing facilities; bauxite processing plant (BPP) 
to reduce the amount of water withdrawal and minimize 
the contaminant from wastewater discharge into water 
bodies.
From the monitoring results in 
2023, wastewater from bauxite washing plants had 
average total suspended solids (TSS) of 12.13 mg/L.
The 
TSS levels is are consistently below the threshold (200 mg/
L) required by the government.
We do not discharge wastewater from the bauxite the 
bauxite plant, while domestic wastewater is discharged 
into the septic tanks.
Total water consumption (surface and groundwater) in 2023 
decreased by 61% from the previous year.
AIR QUALITY
CITA understands that open pit mining operations will 
generally have an impact on air quality.
Indeed, 
the traffic of operating vehicles passing through our area 
can directly and indirectly affect the air quality at CITA’s 
operating area and its surroundings.
Through these mitigation efforts, 
our monitoring results have shown compliance with 
applicable government thresholds.
At the mine planning phase, we have 
considered the most appropriate method 
for our operational process.
Land clearing
This phase begins with removing land cover 
and topsoil.
This 
phase This mining phase leaves the land 
exposed and more at risk of environmental 
impacts.
Our 
operational areas are not located or adjacent to or in 
contact with protected species, both at the land, terrestrial 
and aquatic.
CITA understands the importance of conserving biodiversity 
in order to maintain the balance of the nature.
The Company’s support includes institutional 
strengthening, regional protection, and monitoring of 
proboscis monkeys and wildlife habitat.
DUKUNGAN CITA TERHADAP PELINDUNGAN 
TAMAN NASIONAL GUNUNG PALUNG 
CITA’S SUPPORT IN THE PROTECTION OF GUNUNG PALUNG NATIONAL PARK
55
82
PT CITA MINERAL INVESTINDO TBK
Climate Protection
Pelindungan 
Iklim
Perlindungan Iklim
Climate Protection
83
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2023
84
86
Konsumsi Energi
Energy Consumption
Emisi Gas Rumah Kaca
Greenhouse Gas Emission
5
84
PT CITA MINERAL INVESTINDO Tbk
Kami menyadari pentingnya mengambil tindakan untuk 
memerangi perubahan iklim.
We realize the importance of taking action to combat 
climate change.
To bolster government’s 
goal, we aim to increase the total renewable energy mix 
to 30% by 2025.
In 2023, CITA’s total energy consumption decreased by 
43.86% with a total contribution of renewable energy 
sources of 31.57%.
Energy Intensity (302-3)
Energy intensity is an important parameter to measure the 
efficiency of our operations.
This is due to the 
changes in the distance from mining area to the ore washing 
plants which is increasingly farther as we extend our operation.
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSION 
(305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4)
We regularly monitor and evaluate our GHG emissions 
from all operational activities and calculate them based on 
the GHG Protocol: Corporate Standard and ISO 14064-1 
standards for emission inventory.
In 2021, we completed 
the development of an emissions inventory, including for 
the Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions.
Scope 3 (other indirect GHG emissions) includes emissions 
from employee business travel and employee commuting.
CITA gladly shares that in 2023 there was a decrease in 
our GHG emission intensity to 0.0130 Ton CO2e in 2023 
compared to 0.0135 Ton CO2e in 2022.
Only Scope 1 and 2 GHG emission.
Our BOC 
and BOD’s roles and responsibilities are stated in the Board 
Manual, which are supervising and evaluating the Company’s 
activities and being responsible for the Company’s strategy 
and managing risks.
In determining our highest governance 
bodies, it is regulated in the nomination and selection policy.
More details can be found on our website.
To assist BOC and BOD, the Company formed an audit 
committee to prepare and carry out assessment of the 
efficiency and effectiveness of operational activities in 
accordance with the risk-based annual audit plan.
Further information is available in 
the Annual Report.
Company’s Policies (2-15, 205-1, 205-2, 205-3)
As our guideline to implement GCG comprehensively, the 
Company has established policies including Code of Ethics, 
Anti-Money Laundering Policy, Anti-Corruption Policy 
Whistleblowing System, Sanctions, and Selection and Capacity 
Building Policy for Suppliers or Vendors.
To ensure that all 
employees are aware of Company’s policies, we regularly 
communicate these policies to all stakeholders, which are 
publicly accessible through the company’s website.
Ethics
In order to expand the understanding and implementation of 
the Company’s code of conduct, we uphold integrity, morals, 
and ethics at all Company’s level from highest governance 
bodies, employees, business partners, and stakeholders.
We will give sanctions in 
compliance with the Company’s regulations and applicable 
laws and regulations to individuals who is proven to have 
conducted corruption or fraud.
Local Suppliers (204-1)
As a Company, we are very open to cooperation with 
suppliers from any region in Indonesia.
increasing number of local suppliers to 32% compared to 
2022, is a manifestation of our commitment to prioritize 
local suppliers.
DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 
(401-1)
CITA ensures employee diversity to create an inclusive 
work environment.
This applies from 
recruitment process, development, and performance 
appraisal.
By 
2023, 10% of the management level personnel (from 
superintendent to director) has been recruited from local 
communities (originally from West Kalimantan).
Facing this current condition, we 
continue to prioritizing employee rights and ensuring the 
workforce management in accordance with Company’s 
core values and regulations, including providing severance 
pay, reward, and compensation.
The suspension of 
operations in this site was policy a decision to refocus all 
operations at the Air Upas Site only.
Diversity (2-8, 405-1)
We are committed to respecting gender equality and 
striving to increase inclusivity.
As of 2023, the 
percentage of women working at CITA is 16% of the total 
594 employees, which represents an increase from 13% in 
2022.
To support this, CITA 
has organized additional activities such 
as gatherings and sports matches on 
a regular basis.
With this 
activity, employees are expected to gain 
additional knowledge in areas relevant 
to the Company and receive a positive 
influence in balancing work and personal 
life activities.
Wages and Benefit (202-1, 401-2)
CITA recognizes that equality and equity in the 
standards of wages and benefits for all employees are 
important for our employees 
and the Company.
CITA 
refers 
to 
the 
applicable 
policies 
and regulations in Indonesia, 
including the regional minimum wage.
HUMAN RIGHTS
We consistently uphold employee’s human rights.
We 
ensure the absence of discrimination in all areas of our 
operations by guaranteeing the implementation of this 
through the Company’s policies and providing a reporting 
system that can accommodate reports of indications of 
violations for both internal and external parties.
The scope of violations that can be 
reported through this mechanism includes deviations from 
Selain itu, untuk menjamin kesejahteraan karyawan, 
Perusahaan juga menawarkan tunjangan tambahan lainnya.
In 
2021, 
a 
bipartite 
cooperation 
institution, 
PT 
Cita Mineral Investindo Tbk Sandai Site (LKS Bipartit 
Sandai), was registered, covering all employees at the 
Sandai Site.
This was facilitated by the Head of the 
Manpower and Transmigration Agency in Ketapang 
Regency.
ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE AND 
VALUE TO COMMUNITY (201-2)
The government’s bauxite ore export ban policy and 
the limited number of bauxite ore refining companies in 
Indonesia impacted the Company’s economic performance.
On the other hand, domestic sales 
increased 
by 
58.03% 
to 
IDR2,834,711,097,737.00.
