Tanggung Jawab Sosial CITA, 
Entitas Anak & Asosiasi
CITA, Subsidiaries & Associate's Social Responsibility
The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is a form of 
CITA’s concern and contribution to the development 
and empowerment of communities living surrounding 
the mining site and alumina processing plant.
The CSR program is an obligation 
which is regulated by the regulations, including: 
1.
47 of 2012 about 
Limited Companies in their obligations to carry 
out social and environmental responsibilities.
17 of 2017 
concerning Corporate Social and Environmental 
Responsibility.
During the year of 2013 to 2017 period, all mining 
activities on the premises owned by CITA and the 
Subsidiaries were stopped due to the implementation 
of the export ban of raw minerals by the government.
This policy is listed on the Minister of Energy and 
Mineral Resources Regulation No.
2014 concerning the 
increasing of mineral’s value added through domestic 
mineral processing and refining activities.
CSR 
activities carried out by CITA and Subsidiaries were 
affected by this regulation.
With this program, 
children are expected to understand the clean lifestyle 
and can be applied in daily life both in the school 
environment and at home.
In this activity the company involved health workers 
from the District Health Center as program presenters.
During this program more than 200 students received 
benefits from the program.
THE PROGRAM TO ASSIST THE IMPROVEMENT  OF 
EDUCATIONAL FACILITIES AND INFRASTRUCTURE
This program is directed to schools with poor facilities 
and infrastructure.
The company 
invites presenters that are appointed by the District 
Education Office to provide deeper understanding to the 
participants.
The 
water capacity built by the company is 4,400 liters of 
water.
SOCIAL AND CULTURAL PROGRAM 
Culture shows national identity.
The routine activities facilitated 
by the company are: 	
	
	
	
	
1.
Safar baths and other customs.
The 
Company and Subsidiaries are respecting the existence 
of religious diversity in the communities surrounding 
the location of business activities.
INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAM 
This program is carried out as a concern for the ease 
of infrastructure access for the surrounding community.
CITA and its Subsidiaries strive to assist in village’s 
lighting facilities, construction and repair of roads to 
give more convenience access to public areas, the ease 
of access to clean water supply, and strengthening 
other access.
Some hamlets that have enjoyed electricity 
supply programs include Manggungan Hamlet, Batang 
Belian Hamlet, Pesanggaran Hamlet, Pelanjau Jaya 
Hamlet, Benguk Hamlet, Air Merah Hamlet, Sedawak 
Hamlet, Sebbalan Hamlet.
With the integration program, the 
community has benefited with additional income.
As a Foreign Investment (PMA) company that engages 
in SGA processing, the Company’s business activities 
are in touch with all community’s members, so that 
harmonious and mutually supportive relationships will 
be an important key to WHW’s operational success.
The responsible environmental 
management has led WHW to export its products 
successfully.
This 
recognition has brought further convenience to SGA’s 
export activities to China.
WHW has absorbed a local workforce of 89.60% of the 
total employees where more than half are regional 
workers, to work as company employees.
WHW’s openness in recruiting workers is believed to 
bring a positive impact to the income of the surrounding 
community, including:
-	 Knowledge transfer from foreign workers to local 
workers
WHW understands that the operation of alumina 
purification technology requires special expertise and 
requires reliable professionals so the technology can 
bring maximum benefits to the community.
That’s why, WHW is committed to develop 
the competence of the local workforce by transferring 
knowledge from foreign workers to local workers.
WHW brings in Foreign Workers (TKA) to implement the 
transfer of knowledge alumina purification technology.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY TO SOCIAL 
AND COMMUNITY AFFAIRS
-	 RELIGIOUS ACTIVITIES
1.
Assistance for Mosque Construction
	
In January 2018, WHW provided building materials 
assistance for the renovation of a mosque in 
Sungai Tengar Hamlet, and the construction of 
a mosque in Batu Begendang Hamlet, Mekar 
Utama Village.
-	 EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
In January 2018, WHW conducted CSR for 
educational development programs which was 
provided in the form of materials assistance for the 
school classrooms’ construction.
-	 HEALTH AND SAFETY ASPECTS
	
	
	
	
	
	
WHW conducted some activities from January to 
February 2018, to commemorate the Month of 
National Occupational Safety, Health, and Safety 
(K3).
The activities included the flag ceremonies, 
K3 quiz competition, seminars related to mining 
safety management systems (SMKP), campaigns in 
the form of installing banners on K3, fire prevention 
competitions, banner design competitions, and the 
signing of safety commitment banners.
-	 SPORTS PROGRAM
In 2018, WHW donated sports equipment to 
the community in Sukaria Hamlet and Kelukup 
Belantak.
As a form of participation, WHW provided 
prizes for the winners.
