As the world 
transitions to a low-carbon economy, demand for copper is expected to increase.
We believe increased demand 
should be met responsibly.
It informs our stakeholders what we stand for and is a frame that guides our decisions.
Our ambition recognizes the critical role our products play in global progress — including the low-carbon energy 
transition — and underlies our commitment to continue to advance the responsible production of our products.
We plan to continue to act on the critical social and environmental issues facing our business and our stakeholders.
Accelerating the Future, Responsibly aligns to our core values and supports our company culture, helping to cultivate 
an ethical and engaged workforce capable of innovating the future of mining and leading our company and industry into a 
more sustainable and responsible era of mining.
OUR CRITICAL ENABLERS
The capabilities that support our pillars and create the momentum 
needed to continuously evolve and deliver on our commitments now 
and in the future.
We strive to embed 
a holistic ESG approach into decision making by leveraging our 
internal culture and regulatory and technical systems and expertise.
▸	 Thriving Environments
Mining impacts the natural environment.
We work to conduct our 
operations with minimal adverse impacts on the environment, 
and we support the protection of ecosystems through responsible 
environmental stewardship.
This commitment is embedded in our 
management systems and approach to continuous improvement.
1
2
OUR BELIEFS
▸	 Increased global demand for copper should be met responsibly.
▸	 The challenges of tomorrow demand innovation.
We embrace this fully.
▸	 Rising ESG expectations are an opportunity to create greater 
value.
▸	 Resilience and adaptability are essential characteristics and 
priorities for any organization striving to achieve enduring ESG 
progress.
▸	 Transparency and accountability are crucial to building and 
maintaining trust.
We are committed to openly 
engaging with and listening to our stakeholders.
▸	 Operational Excellence
Set the standard for responsible copper and molybdenum production.
▸	 Collaborative Partnerships
Earn and maintain trust with communities and stakeholders.
We proactively and collaboratively engage our host communities, 
including Indigenous Peoples, to define and build a common vision for 
creating shared value.
▸	 Responsible Value Chains
Responsibly deliver our products to the global economy.
3
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 11
4
OUR VALUES
Our culture is the bedrock of Freeport’s sustainability strategy, aligning our 
core company values to our work.
Our core values direct the decisions we 
make as a company and as individual employees.
▸	 Respect
We treat each other and our stakeholders with respect.
We value the 
diversity, ideas, perspectives and experiences of our employees and 
our stakeholders.
We collaborate to create and implement 
innovative ideas and to develop solutions to issues and concerns.
▸	 Commitment
We are committed to contributing to the long-term sustainability of 
the environment and communities where we work.
We hold ourselves 
accountable for our environmental and social performance.
Our ambitions and 
performance targets are outlined in the tables below.
Ambition statements were not developed for compliance obligations, which 
continue to be critically important to our business.
4	 Annual community investment target determined by 1% of the average of the previous 3 years’ annual mining operations revenues.
5	 Significant environmental event is defined as a consequence rating of 3 or higher on our risk matrix.
We are proud to play a leading role in setting the industry 
benchmark for responsible copper production by collaborating with 
stakeholders to innovate and drive change.
As we seek 
to meet the increasing demand for copper, our responsible production 
framework supports our efforts to ensure that our increased production is 
achieved responsibly and sustainably.
We work globally 
to translate these commitments to our business through the development of 
common industry frameworks.
Defining and implementing responsible production at Freeport is an iterative 
process with continuous improvement at its core.
We then integrate these commitments, 
policies and practices into our risk register process, which drives our actions.
GOVERNANCE
VALIDATION
POLICIES 
& PRACTICES
STAKEHOLDER 
ENGAGEMENT
VOLUNTARY 
COMMITMENTS
RISK REGISTER
ACTIONS
MEASURE 
& REPORT
 18
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 19
THE COPPER MARK
The Copper Mark is a comprehensive assurance framework that promotes 
responsible production practices.
The 
Copper Mark was built on a genuine commitment from the copper industry to 
ensure and advance responsible production practices globally.
The Copper Mark is currently evaluating extension of its 
framework to other base metals; Freeport supports this effort.
This includes key roles in the Advisory Council, Due Diligence 
Working Group, Technical Working Group and Transparency Working Group.
Through these efforts, we encourage our stakeholders, peers, customers 
and downstream users to join, collaborate and encourage uptake of the 
Copper Mark globally, while contributing to the strengthening of the 
framework over time.
In 2020, Freeport committed to achieving the Copper Mark at all of its 
copper producing sites.
Learn more about our Copper Mark commitment on our website and view our 
site-level Copper Mark assessment reports at coppermark.org.
As a founding 
member, Freeport has been a leader for over 20 years, and 
our Chairman and CEO currently serves as Chair of ICMM’s CEO Council.
In 2020, ICMM membership approved and published 38 performance 
expectations, designed to enhance the long-held 10 Mining Principles for 
sustainable development.
In October of 2021, 
ICMM members signed the ICMM Climate Change Statement where they 
committed to a goal of net zero Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 2050 or 
sooner in line with the ambitions of the Paris Agreement.
Freeport aspires 
to participate in ­
— and positively contribute to — a 2050 net zero economy.
All risks require annual monitoring, and detailed 
action plans are prepared for those rated as critical.
Once prioritized, action plans are developed for risk 
management.
The register and these plans serve as the focal point of internal 
and external assurance at both the corporate level and operating sites.
The risks included in the risk register are mapped to our external 
commitments, including all 38 ICMM Performance Expectations and the 
Copper Mark’s 32 ESG requirements.
We are currently working to 
integrate our climate change related physical and transition risks to the 
business into this process.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 21
INTEGRATING RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTION INTO GROWTH PROJECTS 
As the world transitions to a lower-carbon economy, demand for copper 
is expected to increase.
We seek to support this increased global demand, 
responsibly.
We have an internal risk review process to specifically consider 
sustainability issues during the evaluation, and implementation of, potential 
expansion and development projects.
Similar to our risk register process for our operating sites, our project 
development sustainability review process integrates sustainability into 
project planning by helping teams identify risks and opportunities associated 
with expansions or development projects.
Key focus areas identified at different project stages have included: 
access to water, energy and materials, potential impacts to hydrology, air quality, 
biodiversity, human rights, community receptivity, economic impacts, and land 
acquisition and resettlement.
During 
the planning stages for the project the process was initiated through a cross 
functional team which identified a number of actionable risks and opportunities 
that the project and corporate teams are now working to address.
Meetings are held with action owners over time to address risks and 
opportunities as construction continues.
Our Bagdad mine in 
Arizona was awarded the 
Copper Mark in 2021.
Freeport has designed and implemented rigorous policies and processes that drive broad engagement with and 
strong accountability from company leadership on our ESG commitments.
These policies and processes support our 
efforts to embed sustainability into company practices and integrate ESG into everyday decision-making.
Our governance supports our focus on transparency, which we recognize is essential to building — and maintaining 
— enduring trust with stakeholders.
Accountability on ESG extends to the highest levels of the company, including to our Chairman and CEO and with 
active oversight from our Board of Directors.
These expectations embody the company’s commitment to ethical and legal conduct in all business practices and 
activities.
Freeport’s governance structures are the foundation of our work to earn the respect, trust and confidence of our 
stakeholders by establishing and living up to the highest standards of responsible performance.
24
Governance
WHY IT MATTERS
Effective governance aligns a company’s purpose, policies and practices to inform robust 
decision-making.
OUR APPROACH
Sustainability is embedded in Freeport’s values and business strategy.
Governance and oversight 
of sustainability ultimately resides with the Board, with day-to-day oversight by the executive 
leadership and site-level management teams.
We have the structure and processes in place to facilitate 
effective decision-making and advance our stakeholders’ long-term interests.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
The Board oversees and guides the company’s business strategy and monitors the development and 
management of risks that impact the company’s strategic goals, including sustainability-related risks.
Each of these committees is composed 
entirely of independent directors and regularly reports to the full Board.
THE BOARD’S CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE 
The CRC, on behalf of the Board, is responsible for oversight of the 
company’s environmental and social policies and implementation programs 
and related matters.
The CRC reviews the effectiveness of the company's 
strategies, programs, and policy implementation with respect to safety and 
health, responsible production frameworks, climate, tailings management 
and stewardship, water stewardship, biodiversity and land management, 
waste management, human rights, stakeholder relations, social 
performance and Indigenous Peoples, responsible sourcing and political 
activity and spending practices.
Starting in 2022, the Board 
added a fourth regularly scheduled CRC meeting to continue to support 
the Board’s increased oversight on ESG-related topics.
Additionally, each of the Audit, Governance and Compensation Committees 
oversee key ESG matters.
The Governance Committee oversees our corporate 
governance practices and procedures and the Compensation Committee 
oversees our human capital management programs, including those relating 
to workforce recruitment, retention and development, pay equity and 
inclusion and diversity.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP
SITE GENERAL MANAGERS
FUNCTIONAL DEPARTMENT DIRECTORS
SUSTAINABILITY LEADERSHIP TEAM
GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY NETWORK
Business Unit 
Presidents
Senior Leadership 
Functional Departments
Corporate 
Responsibility
Committee 
Governance 
Committee
Audit
 Committee
Compensation 
Committee
OPERATIONS
CORPORATE
 26
EXECUTIVE SUSTAINABILITY LEADERSHIP 
Our Chairman and CEO has responsibility for the company’s sustainability performance, with 
active oversight from the Board.
In 2021, the SLT met monthly and members of the SLT regularly reported to executive leadership, 
including our Chairman and CEO and our President.
In addition, members of the SLT regularly report 
to the Board’s CRC on key ESG matters and periodically report to the full Board.
Executive officers are held accountable for the company’s sustainability performance through the 
company’s performance-based annual incentive program (AIP).
In 2021, ESG metrics collectively 
accounted for 25% of the AIP (15% safety and 10% sustainability), with the sustainability metric 
including environment, human rights, communities, climate, tailings management and workforce 
inclusion and diversity priorities.
37+38+15+10+J
25
%
 E
S
G
37.5% 
Operational
37.5% 
Financial
10% 
Sustainability
15% 
Safety
2021
ANNUAL INCENTIVE
PROGRAM
Team members at our Grasberg 
minerals district, Indonesia.
OUR APPROACH
Freeport is guided by its Principles of Business Conduct (PBC), the cornerstone of our commitment 
to ethical business practices.
Our Principles of Business Conduct 
define the expected behavior of all 
our employees and the Board.
Descriptions of Freeport’s 
key policies are provided below, and complete policies are available in local 
languages on the corporate governance section of our website.
Anti-Corruption 
Establishes Freeport’s zero tolerance policy for any form of corruption, 
private- or public-sector, and prohibits facilitation payments worldwide.
Outlines procedures to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices 
Act (FCPA) and other relevant anti-corruption laws in all countries where 
we operate.
The Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights are 
the guidelines for our security programs.
Inclusion & Diversity 
Outlines our commitment to fostering a culture that is safety-focused, 
respectful, inclusive, and representative of the communities where we 
operate.
It applies to Freeport and its affiliated political action committees.
Responsible Sourcing of Minerals 
Outlines our commitment to producing and sourcing minerals and metals 
responsibly, including respecting human rights; preventing bribery, fraud and 
corruption; and implementing the Organisation of Economic Co-operation 
and Development (OECD) Due Diligence Guidelines for Responsible Mineral 
Supply Chains in Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas.
Social Performance 
Recognizes the vital role of stakeholder engagement and calls for 
collaboration with communities, including indigenous and vulnerable 
populations, to avoid, minimize, mitigate and remedy adverse impacts and 
pursue opportunities to maximize benefits.
Supplier Code of Conduct 
Based on the PBC, outlines our expectations for suppliers and supports our 
commitment to only do business with suppliers and contractors who meet the 
standards we set for ethical business conduct.
During 2022, we are expanding 
our Supplier Code of Conduct to a Business Partner Code of Conduct.
Freeport has zero tolerance for corruption of any kind.
In addition to our 
employees, we hold our contractors and suppliers to this same standard.
We 
do not obtain any business advantage through bribery, improper payments, 
kickbacks, or any other illegal means.
Over a decade ago, Freeport set out to modernize and grow our 
compliance function.
The program today covers regulatory compliance 
in areas such as anti-corruption, international trade controls, conflicts 
of interest, discrimination and sexual harassment, forced labor and 
other subjects addressed in our PBC.
The company has a comprehensive anti-corruption infrastructure, designed 
to detect, mitigate, and remediate violations of legal and regulatory 
requirements.
Our Anti-Corruption Policy and internal guidelines require 
compliance with the FCPA and other applicable laws of the countries and 
jurisdictions where we operate.
In 2021, 
100% of selected employees completed the online training course.
FCeX is a survey-based software platform 
designed to assess risk in the areas of anti-corruption, international trade, 
human rights, and responsible sourcing.
FCeX enhances our ability to identify, 
assess, and mitigate these compliance risks.
Learn more in the Responsible Value Chains section below.
In 2021, we enhanced our annual review process 
with additional support from external legal counsel.
To encourage our workforce to report potential violations of business 
conduct, our Compliance Line enables anonymous reporting.
Freeport has zero tolerance for 
corruption of any kind, and we hold 
our employees, contractors, and 
suppliers to this same standard.
30
Human Rights
WHY IT MATTERS 
Human rights are internationally recognized, defined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights 
and codified in international law.
Respect is a core value that guides how we do business at Freeport.
As such, we aim to promote human rights through proactive engagement with host 
governments and communities and by training our employees and contractors.
Freeport respects internationally recognized human rights, including the rights under the International 
Bill of Human Rights, and is committed to implementing the United Nations Guiding Principles on 
Business and Human Rights (UNGPs).
Our 
most recent UK Modern Slavery Act Statement is available on our website.
On a broader scale, we participate in multi-industry dialogues on respect for human rights ― 
including Business for Social Responsibility’s human rights working group; Sustainability 50’s 
executive-level peer-to-peer collaboration and information exchange on multiple topics, including 
human rights and responsible supply chains; ICMM Working Groups; and the Voluntary Principles on 
Security and Human Rights (VPs).
Respect is a core value at 
Freeport.
We treat each 
other and our stakeholders 
with respect.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 31
 POLICIES & PROGRAMS 
▸ 	 Human Rights Policy – This policy states our commitments to the 
International Bill of Human Rights, the UNGPs and the VPs.
We mandate human rights standards through our 
supplier contracts.
▸ 	 Responsible Sourcing of Minerals Policy – This policy commits 
our business to identifying and mitigating human rights violations 
in our supply chains of minerals and metals for our downstream 
processing facilities.
Our PBC and other core policies ― including Anti-Corruption, Social 
Performance, Environmental, Safety and Health, and Inclusion and Diversity 
― support the application of the Human Rights Policy.
Our cross-
functional human rights working group meetings remained paused in 2021 
to enable the team to focus on supporting our sites and adapting programs 
to the challenges COVID-19 presented.
In 2022, we plan to reinitiate regular 
human rights working group meetings, which will be focused on driving our 
strategy globally.
We have significant ongoing 
work on our standalone Human Rights Impact Assessments (HRIAs) and 
are working to improve the knowledge of our workforce and suppliers 
through training.
In addition, we are working to significantly improve our 
systems for our risk register, stakeholder engagement and grievance 
management.
In 2022, we are expanding our Supplier Code of Conduct to 
a Business Partner Code of Conduct, in order to include our downstream 
partners, including customers and recipients of charitable giving.
We continued to adjust workforce COVID-19 requirements as the circumstances of the 
pandemic evolved, and we listened to feedback from our workforce and communities.
This practice was discontinued in early 2022 as conditions improved.
Similarly, at our PT-FI operations in Indonesia, we enacted travel restrictions between our operations 
in the Highlands and the communities in the Lowlands where most of our employees live in order to 
limit potential COVID-19 exposure for our workforce and host communities.
As we gained experience 
with COVID-19 protocols and listened to feedback from our workforce and host communities, 
we responded and adjusted workforce COVID-19 requirements.
VOLUNTARY PRINCIPLES ON SECURITY & HUMAN RIGHTS 
The VPs serve as guidelines for our security and human rights programs, including for interactions 
with host government police, military personnel and private security contractors.
We focus our 
implementation primarily on Indonesia and Peru, which are higher-risk jurisdictions for security and 
human rights matters.
Contracts with private security providers include 
requirements to comply with both our Human Rights Policy and the VPs.
We maintain Memorandums 
of Understanding with host governments that detail the working relationship between the company 
and the public security personnel assigned to it.
Human Rights Compliance Officers conduct training 
for security employees, security contractors and host government security.
Refer to our annual reports to the Voluntary Principles Plenary on our website for 
more information.
Human rights considerations are included in our 
annual PBC training.
This includes our sites in Indonesia and Peru, 
where both human rights and security risks are higher.
Training at these 
sites is led by dedicated site-based human rights compliance officers.
Training included induction or refresher training for over 6,400 members 
of our workforce, and training prior to deployment for approximately 1,060 
police and military personnel.
Training included 
approximately 3,200 hours of training on human rights and the VPs 
online and in-person for over 5,660 members of our workforce, and pre-
deployment training for 512 police personnel.
Our PT-FI operation in 
Indonesia maintains a robust 
human rights program.
We implement and refine our approach to human rights through ongoing stakeholder 
engagement, grievance management and the findings from our HRIAs.
These assessments involve direct input from a broad cross-section of internal 
and external rights-holders, and they support continuous improvement of our management systems 
by testing their effectiveness in identifying and addressing potential, actual and perceived human 
rights risks and impacts.
In addition to HRIAs, our responsible sourcing programs require human rights due diligence on 
suppliers of both goods and services, and minerals and metals for further processing.
In 2021, we 
continued refining our approach to assess supplier human rights and other sustainability-related 
risks which we discuss in more detail in our Responsible Value Chains section.
In 2022, El Abra 
will work with the consultant on developing action plans and ensuring findings are reflected in the 
site's risk register.
We plan to 
publish a summary of the findings and recommendations in 2022.
Over 420 stakeholders were engaged during the interview phase 
of the process which was completed in early 2022.
The review and analysis 
phase of the process is currently underway.
Due to the size 
and complexity of the site, we currently expect the assessment will extend 
through the end of 2023.
In addition to HRIAs, our 
responsible sourcing 
programs require human 
rights due diligence 
on suppliers of both 
goods and services, and 
minerals and metals for 
further processing.
We are committed to open and 
collaborative cooperation to address, and where appropriate, remediate 
adverse impacts of our operations.
We updated our community 
grievance mechanism in 2021, incorporating the effectiveness criteria 
outlined in the UNGPs.
Globally, human rights and environmental issues 
in supply chains have been receiving increasing scrutiny from consumers, 
NGOs, regulators and stakeholders.
This pressure heightens expectations and responsibility for robust due 
diligence by mineral and metal producers globally.
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING 
Our Supplier Code of Conduct and our compliance screening processes 
represent the foundation of our responsible sourcing program for all 
suppliers globally.
This is a significant undertaking, as it covers over 20,000 
suppliers that provide a wide variety of goods and services — from small 
catering businesses in remote locations to large multinational corporations 
that produce heavy machinery or minerals and metals.
This survey-based software platform has enhanced our 
ability to identify, assess, and mitigate compliance risks in areas of anti-
corruption, international trade, and human rights.
We work with our supply chain 
and business partners to manage 
and promote responsible and 
sustainable practices.
The policy describes how we implement 
the OECD Guidelines on Mineral Supply Chains in Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas.
It is critical 
to address London Metals Exchange’s requirements on responsible sourcing to maintain brand 
approval.
In addition to the responsible sourcing process outlined above, to implement the policy, we assess 
our incoming metal and mineral supply chains to identify potential “flags” associated with what the 
OECD Guidelines define as Annex II risks — such as bribery, corruption, human trafficking, and child 
or forced labor.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 39
LOCAL PROCUREMENT
In 2021, we continued to prioritize greater transparency in our local 
procurement spending, with a focus on expanding opportunities for 
local suppliers, where feasible.
At our North America operations, 
we implemented a standard operating procedure emphasizing local 
procurement.
Freeport remains committed to supporting 
our local host communities and recognizes the critical role these 
communities, and businesses in those communities, play in our daily 
operations and our company’s success.
Our local producer had plant disruptions 
that limited product availability.
Freeport remains committed to 
supporting local host communities 
and recognizes the critical role 
these communities and businesses 
play in our daily operations and our 
company’s success.
In early 2020, the ICA launched a 
project to update the current global LCA profile for copper concentrate and cathode.
Freeport has 
played a key role in this work, providing data from our mining and refining facilities.
In 2021, the 
work continued with expanded focus to include the ICA Global Copper Decarbonization Roadmap 
project, endeavoring to develop a methodology for estimating copper’s carbon footprint.
This 
study remains in progress with expected publication in 2022 of an updated LCA profile, carbon 
footprint average for the industry and guidelines for its calculation.
As our 
operations in Indonesia represent roughly 50% of Freeport’s global Scope 1 GHG emissions, this is 
a significant commitment.
This GHG emissions intensity reduction target is in addition to the target 
we previously set in 2020 for our Americas copper business.
Both targets are critical to reducing 
the carbon footprint of our products, as the majority of our GHG emissions are Scopes 1 and 2.
Freeport has 
played a key 
role in this work, 
providing data 
from our mining 
and refining 
facilities.
42
In 2021, team members safely achieved the ramp-up of production 
targets at the Grasberg minerals district in Indonesia - establishing 
the Grasberg Complex as world’s largest underground mines.
Externally, we continued to support the communities where we operate and embraced the cultural heritage of our 
Indigenous neighbors.
Workforce safety is essential to operational success.
OUR APPROACH
Safety is a core company value and is foundational to our sustainability 
approach.
We believe that health and safety considerations are integral to, and 
fundamental for, all other functions in our organization and we understand 
that the health and safety of our workforce is critical to our operational 
success and efficiency and ultimately to our ability to deliver long-term 
value to our stakeholders.
We strive to achieve zero workplace fatalities, high-risk incidents, injuries 
and occupational illnesses by creating a safe and healthy workplace.
This includes providing the training, tools and resources needed so our 
workforce can identify risks and consistently apply effective controls.
In 2021, we continued to integrate our Safe Production Matters strategy 
into our operations globally.
Our 
principal focus is on the prevention of fatalities and high-risk incidents, 
which we seek to manage by leveraging technology to support the efficiency 
of safe work practices in the field and data driven decision making in 
combination with behavioral science principles.
During the year, we continued our work to provide 
operational leaders with timely and transparent information to support and 
encourage quality safety discussions with employees in the field.
Policies & Programs
▸	 Safety and Health Policy — States our commitments, processes and 
management systems to meet our health and safety objectives.
▸	 Contractor Health and Safety Manual — Defines the expectations and 
requirements for contractors working at our operations.
Executive management receives safety performance reports regularly, 
including reviews of high-risk, potentially fatal and fatal incidents, and we present and discuss all fatal 
incident investigations with the CRC and the Board.
In the event of a fatality, executive management and 
the CRC is notified immediately.
Our global operations continued to 
develop, refine and implement site-specific COVID-19 mitigation protocols to protect our workforce, 
our host communities and our business.
This included frequent and timely communications designed 
to educate, equip and protect our workforce and host communities.
Additionally, our administrative 
support teams continued to work remotely, when possible.
To date, our protocols have been largely effective in mitigating and preventing a major outbreak of 
COVID-19 at our operations.
We will continue to monitor, assess and update our COVID-19 related 
responses moving forward.
Globally, our current employee vaccination rates are 95% for our South American 
sites, and 90% for our Indonesian operations but only 56% for our North American sites.
Oxygen plant donated by our Cerro Verde 
operations in Arequipa, Peru to support 
COVID-19 relief efforts.
The goal of our FRM program is to achieve zero workplace 
fatalities by strengthening preventative measures.
Fundamental to the FRM 
program is our effort to proactively identify potentially fatal risks in the field 
and apply the controls most critical for their avoidance.
Our frontline supervisors play 
a vital role in the success of FRM by engaging their teams in discussions to 
identify risks in the work they set out to do each day, keeping employees 
focused and eliminating distractions.
We expect our workforce to stop work immediately if critical 
controls are missing or ineffective, or if work is not being performed safely.
This helps ensure that controls are in place to mitigate high-
risk tasks.
A critical control checklist is available on mobile 
devices to assist supervisors in real time in the field.
Required follow-
up includes a review of findings with senior management and site senior 
leadership who oversee and are responsible for implementing corrective 
actions.
All fatalities and corrective 
actions are reviewed and discussed with the Board and the CRC.
PERFORMANCE 
We measure our safety performance through regularly established 
benchmarks, including our company-wide Total Recordable Incident Rate 
(TRIR), which includes incidents for both employees and contractors.
2	 Our risk register defines "high-risk" events as incidents that have the potential to result in permanent disabilities or 
fatalities.
TRIR is equivalent to MSHA All-Incidence Rate (AIR).
Senior 
leadership at our sites and at the corporate level are actively engaged in the corrective action 
process, including periodic verifications and long-term sustainability of corrective actions.
PT-FI’s senior leadership is 
accountable for verifying implementation, and continuation of, corrective actions.
In response to the fatality at our Morenci operations, we are working with the contracting company 
to provide their employees with refreshed training on our health and safety expectations, with 
a specific focus on confined space protocols, hazard awareness and fatal risk identification.
In the case of a workplace fatality, we assist 
with funeral arrangements as appropriate.
In addition, senior leadership reviews the evaluation 
of each incident to determine compensation for the family, irrespective of liability and in addition 
to local requirements.
We encourage our contractors to approach these types of incidents in a 
similar manner and, depending on the facts and circumstances, we are involved in providing or 
supplementing contractor assistance.
2021 WORKPLACE FATALITIES
June 2021
At PT-FI, a vehicle operator was fatally 
injured after losing control of their 
vehicle while not wearing a seatbelt.
Contractor 
September 2021
At Morenci, a welder was fatally injured 
after entering a  welded pipe segment 
after oxygen had been removed as part 
of the welding process.
We believe this downward trend reflects the positive impact of our safety 
program and Safe Production Matters strategy, which focuses on mitigating those workplace tasks 
with the highest potential consequences and implementing critical controls to minimize risk and 
prevent fatalities.
The action items and monitoring programs implemented 
have led to a decrease in the number of high-risk incidents in recent years.
TOTAL RECORDABLE EVENTS (% HIGH-RISK1)
92+44+44+28+28
25%
20%
15%
10%
5%
0
23%
11%
11%
7%
2017 2018 2019 
2021
1	 Our Sustainable Development Risk Matrix defines  
high-risk events as incidents that have the potential  
to result in a permanent disability or a fatality.
Through mobile technology and enterprise-wide 
dashboards, we seek to facilitate prompt response to potential 
or emerging risks and build our capacity for data-driven decision 
making.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 49
EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLANNING
All Freeport sites and facilities are required to have a crisis management 
plan in place to effectively respond to potential emergencies or crises.
The program is intended to guide our operational approach to 
preparing for, responding to, and recovering from potential risks.
In line with the updated guidelines, each site is required 
to periodically test and drill their crisis management plans with local 
emergency responders.
During 2022, our sites are working internally to update their site-specific 
programs in alignment with the updated guidelines, perform internal tests 
of the updated plans and begin engaging collaboratively with external 
stakeholders to socialize our emergency preparedness plans.
Starting in 
2023, we plan to begin testing and drilling our emergency response plans 
with relevant stakeholders.
The 
Sentinels of Safety Award is the most prestigious recognition of 
mine safety in the U.S. and is awarded annually to the nation’s safest 
mines, as measured by a minimum of 4,000 injury-free hours.
All Freeport sites and facilities have 
a crisis management plan in place 
to effectively respond to potential 
emergencies or crises.
We have a fatigue monitoring system deployed 
in our mobile fleets that communicates with 
a dispatch tower in the case of an alert.
Team 
member at our Morenci operations, Arizona.
50
ARTISANAL MINING IN PAPUA 
At our Grasberg operations in Indonesia, illegal artisanal miners seek unrecovered gold from our 
milling operations by panning in our controlled riverine tailings system.
Additional safety 
challenges exist, related to PT-FI’s ongoing levee maintenance and earthworks, which are needed to 
responsibly manage the controlled riverine system.
A multi-faceted approach — including 
government cooperation, security risk management, stakeholder engagement and socioeconomic 
development for alternative livelihoods — is essential.
In 2021, as a part of PT-FI’s ongoing engagement with the illegal artisanal mining community, we began 
human rights education, with a focus on the rights of children living in the artisanal mining camps on our 
site.
This includes human rights awareness training and ongoing monitoring with a focus on preventing 
child labor.
A multi-faceted 
approach is essential.
52
Workforce 
WHY IT MATTERS
An inclusive and diverse workforce with a broad range of experience, 
knowledge, background, culture and heritage drives innovation, enhances 
operational performance and improves relationships with stakeholders.
Mining, by its cyclical nature, presents challenges to cultivating and 
maintaining a skilled, stable and diverse workforce.
Our ability to successfully recruit, retain, develop 
and advance talented employees is paramount.
We seek to design our programs and initiatives with standardized 
processes and priorities while being adaptable to site specific or situational 
circumstances.
These global policies are publicly available and translated into the local 
languages of the regions where we operate.
We fully expect our workforce 
to understand and comply with our trainings, policies and procedures.
Our culture is safety-focused, respectful 
and inclusive in order to empower our 
workforce to innovate, adapt and succeed.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 53
PERFORMANCE
At the end of 2021, Freeport’s global workforce totaled approximately 24,700 employees and 
42,000 contractors.
Our total employee turnover rate was 9.4% in 2021, decreasing from 14.6% in 2020, when we 
experienced a higher-than-normal rate due to a voluntary separation program early in the year.
Our 2021 turnover rate is in line with our historical levels.
47+25+24+4+J
GLOBAL WORKFORCE
(As of December 31, 2021)
North America	
47%
Indonesia	
25%
South America	
24%
Europe / Other	
4%
EMPLOYEES
(Approximately 24,700)
53+32+15+0+J
Indonesia	
53%
North America	
32%
South America	
15%
Europe / Other	
0%
CONTRACTORS
(Approximately 42,000)
Henderson mine, Colorado.
We prohibit forced, compulsory 
and child labor and human trafficking.
We do not tolerate any form of harassment or discrimination 
against individuals based on race, color, sex, religion, national origin, sexual orientation, gender 
identity or expression, disability, age, veteran’s status or any other characteristic protected by 
applicable law.
During 2021, we continued to maintain positive and collaborative relationships with unions 
representing our employees, working cooperatively with 12 unions in 7 locations worldwide.
Approximately 31% of our global employee population is covered by a collective labor agreement 
(CLA).
Our operations in Indonesia, Europe and South America all are covered by a minimum of 
49% representation.
Our North American workforce is not represented by unions.
The 
Guiding Principles are periodically updated with input from employees and they include a problem-
solving process that complements our broader employee grievance mechanism, adding significant 
value to both our workforce and the company.
We openly engage with our employee and union leadership to negotiate and uphold labor 
agreements, recognizing that prolonged strikes and other work stoppages can adversely affect our 
business, our workforce and regional stakeholders.
In 2021, there were no strikes or lockouts at any 
of our operations.
We recognize and respect 
the rights of our employees.
An employee at our El Abra 
operation in Chile completes haul 
truck simulator training.
The majority of the program is applied learning versus classroom training.
Leading with Purpose is now offered to leaders at our Americas operations 
and reached over 400 leaders in 2021.
We believe our front-line leaders are critical to employee development and 
retention efforts and to safely delivering on our strategy.
We offered multiple monthly 
sessions with each session focusing on a different leadership topic.
In 2021, over 3,000 North American 
leaders attended the sessions and provided valuable feedback on future 
topics, which we will seek to offer in 2022.
Similarly, PT-FI’s Leadership 2021 Program trained 1,500 leaders, including 
front-line supervisors and senior level management.
Some of the topics covered 
included situational leadership, coaching for supervisors, foreman workshops, 
effective workplace relationships and change leadership in difficult times.
This program calls for QR labels to be affixed to 
trucks, dozers, crushers and other equipment and vehicles.
The beauty of Connected Asset is that real-time data related to 
equipment health, including sensor data, alerts and advanced 
analytics can be accessed from tablets in the field.
58
INCLUSION & DIVERSITY
As a global organization that operates in diverse parts of the world, 
we recognize the importance of inclusion and diversity as a company 
priority.
This has included 
formalizing a global inclusion and diversity policy, dedicating human 
resources team members to focus on inclusion and diversity initiatives and 
creating a cross-functional Inclusion and Diversity Steering Committee.
Our Inclusion and Diversity Policy applies to our global workforce and was 
approved in late 2020.
During 2021, we trained leaders on how to foster an 
inclusive and diverse environment at our North America and South America 
operations.
We plan to provide training to leaders at all sites in the future.
Diversity & Local Hiring 
Freeport is committed to fostering a culture that is inclusive and representative 
of the communities where we operate.
Local employment directly contributes to the economic 
and social development of surrounding communities.
Hiring locally is a commitment we make to our host communities.
We aspire for the diversity of 
our global workforce to reflect the diversity of the communities where we 
operate.
In Indonesia, 98% of our employee base 
is Indonesian, including 41% who are Indigenous Papuan.
Our gender representation target in 2021 remained 15% women in our 
total global employee base.
At year-end, women represented 13.4% of our 
employee base, up slightly from 12.6% in 2020.
The percentage of women 
in executive management roles increased by 1.9% in 2021, while the 
percentage of women in management-level positions remained flat, at 
12.3%, versus 2020.
Women currently represent 36.4% of our Board.
Our largest improvement in 
2021 was at our El Abra operations in Chile, where the percentage of women 
employees increased by 3% year over year to 14%.
Amounts have been adjusted to follow globally applicable 
definitions for management levels and proxy statement methodology.
93+68+30+35+83
20%
15%
10%
5%
0
19%
14%
6%
7%
17%
2021 WOMEN EMPLOYED BY FCX LOCATION (%)
North America
Chile
Peru
Indonesia
Europe / Other
13% FCX Global Average
Our largest improvement in 2021 was at 
our El Abra operations in Chile, where 
the percentage of women employees 
increased by 3% year over year to 14%.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 61
FAIR & EQUAL REMUNERATION PRACTICES  
We are committed to respecting the rights of our workforce, including 
paying fair and equal wages.
Our approach to compensation and benefits 
is market-based, competitive and informed by annual benchmarking and 
analysis.
The review included a robust statistical analysis and 
detailed compensation reviews of more than 24,000 employees globally.
The initial results of this comprehensive gender pay evaluation showed that, 
worldwide, female employees were paid more than 99 cents on the dollar 
in the aggregate when compared to male employees.
In the U.S., Hispanic employees were paid 
more than 99 cents on the dollar in the aggregate when compared to White 
employees.
Moving forward, and in recognition 
of evolving pay landscapes, we plan to conduct evaluations of our pay 
equity practices on a periodic basis and integrate key learnings into our 
compensation processes.
BSR’s living wage benchmark 
exceeds the minimum wage in all of Freeport’s 37 locations assessed.
The 
assessment found that of the more than 24,700 employees included in 
the assessment, all employees met BSR’s living wage benchmark for their 
respective locations.
62
Communities & Indigenous Peoples
WHY IT MATTERS 
The relationship between a mining company and its neighboring communities is dynamic.
Mining 
is an inherently cyclical business with production levels fluctuating over time.
While copper and 
molybdenum mines typically have long lives, mining resources ultimately are finite.
Increasing 
automation, technical innovation and shifts in the global economy are changing mining processes 
and labor requirements.
This ongoing collaboration is critical to maintaining a social license to operate.
OUR APPROACH 
Freeport strives to work in partnership with our host communities and Indigenous Peoples to 
earn and maintain their trust and deliver shared value.
Proactive, ongoing engagements and constructive dialogue are foundational to our approach.
This 
is how we understand actual, potential and perceived impacts on our host communities, build trust, 
and mutually identify the most relevant social investments and development priorities to address our 
impacts and support enhanced resilience.
While we tailor our programs to site-specific dynamics of the operation and host communities, 
our overarching objectives in partnership with local stakeholders remain consistent.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 63
Policies & Programs 
▸	 Social Performance Policy – This policy outlines our commitment to 
engage and collaborate with local communities in an effort to avoid, 
minimize, mitigate and remedy adverse impacts while maximizing 
opportunities to deliver value from our presence.
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Traditionally, we engage with our host communities in person through 
Community Partnership Panels in the U.S., community engagement dialogue 
in South America, and Community Liaison Officers and Indigenous Council 
partnerships in Indonesia.
In addition, all of our operations engage with stakeholders 
frequently through situation- or topic-specific meetings, presentations, 
community affairs office hours, and other community outreach and 
engagement efforts.
We sought to reach stakeholders in these communities by phone, when 
available, and in some instances, through socially distanced meetings.
We work in partnership with our host 
communities and Indigenous Peoples 
to earn and maintain their trust and to 
contribute to long-term shared value 
and resilience.
We are steadfast in our commitment to acknowledge, respect and engage 
collaboratively with Indigenous Peoples.
We do this through an approach called Building Trust, which aims to develop 
a consistent process with the objective of fostering trust through ongoing 
engagement, transparency and creating shared value.
Our stakeholder engagement program includes formal interactions with 
Indigenous Peoples in Papua, Indonesia; Native Americans in the U.S.; and the 
traditional communities of Alto El Loa in Chile.
In 2022, we will 
be evaluating the ancestral tribal connections to our Climax and Henderson 
operations in Colorado.
Our internal Native American Affairs team, 
made up of professionals with diverse tribal heritage and experience, provided 
critical guidance and leadership through this effort, and they continue to do 
so on an ongoing basis.
The team’s expertise, knowledge and perspective are 
invaluable to informing our practices.
This approach succeeds through dedicated trust-building teams at our 
operations, placing the engagement strategy and execution in close proximity 
to our Indigenous neighbors.
Tohono O’odham Nation 
members participate in a 
native plant harvest at our 
Sierrita operations, Arizona.
66
CULTURAL HERITAGE
Cultural heritage can be defined as Indigenous or other population’s assets 
and resources, including, but not limited to tangible assets such as places, 
buildings, and artifacts, or intangible assets such as practices, customs, 
religious/spiritual sites and shrines.
We recognize that respecting and 
supporting the cultural heritage of our host communities, including our 
Indigenous neighbors, is critical to our ongoing social license to operate.
We acknowledge that the nature and location of our mining and processing 
activities means we have the potential to impact cultural heritage.
This 
promise is connected to our overarching commitments — such as Human 
Rights — and it manifests in the choices we make when our operations can 
adversely impact the culture of our communities and neighbors.
In 2021, we awarded grants to thirteen projects, which will be 
initiated in 2022.
In Peru, we aid an annual horse pilgrimage that passes through our Cerro 
Verde operations.
The local university 
Cendrawasih supports this activity through capacity building training in 
monitoring tools and activities.
We continued to 
provide dedicated resources and monetary and in-kind support and found 
ways to contribute to regional and national efforts.
We remain focused 
on supporting our communities in their recovery from the impacts of 
COVID-19 through efforts linked to livelihood, such as jobs and income, 
and to learning, such as education and skills.
Ultimately, these projects 
are intended to develop the economic opportunities that enable local 
communities to cultivate resilience and create conditions for 
long-term economic recovery.
Our work includes supporting opportunities and access to capital for small businesses, promoting local sourcing opportunities 
for small businesses, enhancing basic infrastructure such as affordable housing and supporting widespread access to health and wellness services.
Americas 
▸	 As part of a partnership with local authorities, we helped the Chilean 
government provide more than 1,700 COVID-19 vaccine doses to our 
workforce at El Abra.
In response, we have invested in housing 
infrastructure and financial management programs to support 
residents on their path to home ownership.
▸	 At our Morenci operations, a partnership with the Town of Duncan 
and Midstate Energy was recently created to upgrade aging water, 
wastewater and energy infrastructure to prevent failures, reduce 
operating costs, and boost reliability and resiliency of the water system.
▸	 The Impulsa El Loa program at our El Abra operations helped 
develop and strengthen local small businesses by providing locally 
owned businesses, including Indigenous-owned businesses, with 
comprehensive training and financing support.
This initiative 
aims to promote local economic development by enabling local 
business to increase their revenue and create jobs.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 69
Indonesia
▸	 Through our partnership with International SOS, during the year, 
PT-FI worked with the local government to provide COVID-19 
vaccinations to more than 63,000 employees, contractors and their 
families at its mining site in Papua.
As 
COVID-19 surged in mid-2021, PT-FI began producing oxygen at a 
converted industrial site and donated concentrators to hospitals and 
healthcare clinics, including the Mimika Regency General Hospital, 
the Mitra Masyarakat Hospital and the Kuala Kencana Clinic.
The local health authority is working with International 
SOS and national medical experts at the University of Indonesia 
and Udayana University to collect and analyze the data.
In consultation with the Indigenous communities, the 
skill-building programs are aligned with their primary socio-
economic drivers and include courses in outboard motor repair, fiber 
boat construction, dried fish production and marketing, and sago 
flour production and marketing.
Similarly, during the year, PT-FI’s 
community development group provided training and support to 
local farmer groups, cooperatives and entrepreneurs in sustainable 
coffee growing, processing, quality and marketing to assist them with 
entering national and international specialty coffee markets.
Americas
▸	 We believe a  certificate or degree can create personal and 
professional opportunities and support greater economic and social 
mobility.
Moving forward, NMI has plans 
to apply for government accreditation of its heavy diesel mechanic 
and heavy equipment operations programs.
▸	 In 2021, FCX and PT-FI continued its joint mentorship initiative for 
Papuan university students studying in the U.S.
Approximately 70% 
of enrolled students are women.
We have identified additional FCX/
PT-FI mentors to partner with Papuan students studying in Australia.
We are evaluating opportunities to continue expand the 
program post-graduation.
Additionally, Cerro Verde helps to 
strengthen small businesses through its support of the Center for 
Entrepreneurship and Business Development (called "EMPRENDE") 
which assists companies in the districts of Uchumayo, Tiabaya, 
Yarabamba and La Joya.
Leaders from 
the local Indigenous groups and the local government manage this 
foundation with representation from PT-FI.
The goal is for YPMAK 
to eventually achieve financial and managerial independence to 
strengthen the long-term effectiveness of PT-FI’s social investments.
PT-FI is committed to providing funding based on its annual revenues to 
support the social and economic development of its local communities.
We believe inclusive and diverse communities that 
enable full and equal participation of women are stronger, more stable and 
resilient over the long term.
Freeport partners with WEConnect International and Vital Voices to 
support women's empowerment and leadership.
As both a member of, 
and long-standing partner with, WEConnect International, Freeport has 
helped to enable women business owners to compete for a greater share 
of private sector sourcing contracts, including identifying opportunities 
for women to participate in our own supply chain.
The 
customized fellowship curriculum includes 9 months of rigorous courses 
in topics such as leadership, strategic communications, strategy and 
governance and supports the fellows to acquire specific skills to achieve 
their goals related to the advancement of the SDGs in their communities.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 73
COMMUNITY GRIEVANCE MECHANISM 
To support constructive engagement and resolution of potential issues and adverse impacts, we 
maintain a site-level grievance mechanism where community members, including Indigenous 
Peoples, can register their complaints.
The community grievance mechanism can serve as an early 
warning system by tracking trends and patterns in grievance types so they can be addressed in their 
earliest stages, ideally prior to further escalation.
Grievances 
are routed to the site Community Grievance Officer, who records and relays the grievance to the 
appropriate department for evaluation.
We work with community members to acknowledge and 
investigate the grievance, address the impact or problem, and where appropriate, provide remedy.
For grievances with potentially high community impacts, senior management and applicable 
government authorities are engaged as appropriate.
During the year, we finalized updates to our Community Grievance Management standard 
operating procedure incorporating the effectiveness criteria outlined in the UNGPs.
These 
updates standardized key processes and enabled a more consistent approach to documentation 
and resolution to community concerns.
2021 GRIEVANCES
55+35+6+2+2+J
United States	
94
Indonesia	
60
Chile	
10
Peru	
4
Europe	
4
COMMUNITY
GRIEVANCES
TOTAL: 172
33+27+15+13+5+4+2+1+0+J
Community Benefits	
33%
Environment 	
27%
Health & Safety	
15%
Physical Damage 	
13%
Other1	
5%
Land Rights	
4%
Employment 	
3%
Cultural Heritage	
1%
GRIEVANCE
TOPICS (%)
1	 Other includes security, town site / housing 
and other grievances not listed above.
74
Economic Contributions 
WHY IT MATTERS 
Mining operations can contribute to national, regional, and local 
development through employment opportunities, voluntary investments in 
communities and through taxes, royalties, and other financial obligations 
in jurisdictions where the operations are located.
ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTIONS & CASH PAYMENTS TO GOVERNMENTS 
In 2021, Freeport’s direct economic contributions totaled $15.5 billion, 
which includes $9.8 billion in payments to suppliers; $2.4 billion in 
employee wages and benefits; $1.6 billion in payments to providers of 
capital; $1.4 billion in taxes, royalties and other payments to governments; 
and $164 million in direct community investments.
Freeport’s global tax strategy seeks to balance the economic considerations 
of our host governments and stakeholders with our business objectives.
In 
jurisdictions where we conduct business, we advocate for the development 
and implementation of fair and predictable tax laws on issues that are 
important to our business and the industry.
The Extractive Industries 
Transparency Initiative (EITI) is a global standard to promote transparent 
and accountable management of natural resources.
In addition to our country-
level EITI commitments and regulatory reporting obligations, our practice 
is to provide transparency by voluntarily reporting cash payments to 
governments in all significant jurisdictions where we conduct business.
We maintain significant mining operations in Indonesia and 
Peru, both of which have implemented EITI, and we actively support and 
participate in associated in-country processes as part of EITI.
Tax risks are identified 
and monitored by a global team of tax professionals, who assist in executing 
our tax affairs in line with our strategy, PBC and internal control policies.
We are committed to fully cooperating with all tax authorities and providing 
access to accounting and governance documentation as requested.
We contribute to the wealth and 
prosperity of the countries, regions, 
and communities where we operate by 
generating economic value.
We fund our social investment programs directly through each operation and their 
respective foundation or community trust fund.
SDG 12 — Responsible Consumption 
and Production — is central to our strategy of being foremost in the global copper industry.
76
Our molybdenum operations in Colorado have been 
recognized multiple times by the Colorado Mining 
Association for their responsible practices in 
reclamation and environmental stewardship.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
THRIVING ENVIRONMENTS
Freeport recognizes that mining impacts the natural environment.
We are committed to conducting our mining and 
processing operations in a manner that minimizes adverse impacts on the environment and supports protection 
of the natural environment and ecosystems through responsible environmental stewardship, strong management 
systems and continuous improvement.
Our workforce incorporates environmental awareness into daily activities and implements actions that advance 
environmental protection.
Our Environmental Policy, most recently updated and approved by the CRC in December 2021, serves as the 
foundation for our protection of the natural environment in the regions where we live and work.
Mining is energy-intensive and generates significant greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions, which contribute to climate change.
It is a critical component in the technologies that will be 
deployed in a highly electrified and low-carbon economy, including solar and 
wind energy and electric vehicles.
These technologies are critical to support 
the global energy transition needed to meet the Paris Agreement’s goals.
We are dedicated to supplying the 
global economy with responsibly produced copper which includes operating 
in a manner that manages and mitigates our GHG emissions and other 
climate-related risks and impacts.
▸	 Reduction
We strive to reduce, manage and mitigate our GHG emissions, where 
possible.
▸	 Resilience 
We strive to enhance our resilience to both physical and transitional 
risks associated with climate change for our operations, our host 
communities and our stakeholders.
This includes collaborating with partners in our value chain, and 
industry associations, to identify climate-related solutions that will 
support the transition to a low-carbon economy and ultimately meet 
the goals of the Paris Agreement.
REDUCTION
RESILIENCE
CONTRIBUTION
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 79
In September 2021, we published our updated climate report, which outlines substantial progress 
in advancing our climate strategy and commitments, including the announcement of our aspiration 
to net zero by 2050 for our Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions.
In 2021, our global absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions increased by 1.4% to 7.2 million metric tons 
from approximately 7.1 million metric tons the prior year.
Despite this increase, our absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG 
emissions in 2021 were 12% lower than 2018 levels (our target baseline year), due to significant 
improvements in energy efficiency and grid decarbonization.
Our 2021 Scope 3 emissions are currently 
estimated to be 22% of Scope 1, 2 and 3 combined emissions.
The market-based calculation of Scope 2 emissions incorporates emissions factors that are 
available at the time of inventory close.
As required by the GHG Protocol, FCX’s location-based 2021 Scope 2 emissions are reported in the back of this report.
Note: GHG emissions data have been prepared in accordance with the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol.
Decarbonizing our electricity supply by converting power supplies to renewable energy on 
the grid through power purchase agreements (PPAs) and through site-related renewables 
projects to reduce our emissions;  
2.
Optimizing energy and asset efficiency;  
3.
43+30+11+8+7+1+J
Natural Gas	
43%
Hydro	
30%
Coal, Other Fossil Fuels	11%
Solar, Wind, Geothermal	 8%
Nuclear	
7%
Other	
1%
2021
PURCHASED POWER
BY SOURCE
(%) 61+32+7+J
FMC Mining	
61%
PT-FI	
32%
Downstream Processing	 7%
2021
GHG EMISSIONS
BY BUSINESS AREA1
(%)
50+28+22+J
Scope 1	
50%
Scope 2	
28%
Scope 3	
22%
2021
GHG EMISSIONS
BY TYPE
(%)
1	 Refer to page 84 for business area descriptions.
We plan to announce these targets with our 2021 Climate Report.
We have signed a commitment letter and plan to submit our interim 2030 GHG emissions 
reductions targets to SBTi, a widely accepted standard for GHG emissions reduction goals, 
for validation.
Freeport aspires to 
participate in — and 
positively contribute 
to — a 2050 net zero 
economy.
The Freeport Americas Copper intensity reduction target includes all payable copper forms up to cathode 
(which includes concentrate, anode, and cathode) but excludes rod and wire.
3 	 Our PT-FI intensity reduction target is based on payable copper produced in concentrate.
An autonomous electric train 
system moves ore through 
underground tunnels at our 
PT-FI operations in Indonesia.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 83
Americas Copper 
Below we illustrate the absolute emissions and production intensity 
performance of Freeport Americas Copper operations.
On an absolute 
basis, we have reduced our GHG emissions from Freeport Americas 
Copper operations to approximately 4.5 million metric tons, which is 
9% lower than 2018 (target baseline) emissions and 3% lower than 
2020.
Performance against our 2030 intensity target is shown with the 
dotted copper line.
In late 2019, a large coal power station in Arizona was permanently 
shut down which has had a positive impact on the carbon intensity of 
our Morenci mine.
Due to the lag time in emissions factor updates, the 
improvement was not realized until 2021.
In addition, our Miami smelter 
is now receiving 6% renewables from a 9.3 MW contract with Saint 
Solar.
Further, increased production at Chino, Safford and Cerro Verde 
contributed to our intensity performance.
In support of our 2030 target, 
we continue to advance our Copper Skies initiative aimed at integrating 
more renewables into our electricity supply and to seek lower carbon 
options for both haulage and support equipment for our mines.
On an 
absolute basis, we have reduced our emissions to approximately 2.3 million 
metric tons, which is 14% lower than 2018 (target baseline) emissions.
Performance against our 30% emissions intensity target is shown with the 
dotted orange line.
As such, the PT-FI intensity reduction target includes total Scope 1 
emissions only.
The target excludes Scope 3 and does not include by-products in the denominator.
2 	 Our PT-FI intensity reduction target is based on payable copper produced in concentrate.
Note: GHG emissions data have been prepared in accordance with the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol.
2017 
2018 
2019 
2021
6,000
5,000
4,000
3,000
2,000
1,000
0
5
4
3
2
1
0
METRIC TONS CO2e (THOUSANDS)
METRIC TONS CO2e  /  METRIC TON COPPER CATHODE
2020
 84
AGGRESSIVE CLIMATE ACTION (1.5ºC)
Global collaboration to reduce GHG 
emissions to meet Paris Agreement goals 
and reduce emissions to net zero by 2050
MODERATE CLIMATE ACTION (~2.5ºC)
Uncoordinated response based on 
announced policy commitments is insufficient 
to meet the Paris Agreement goals
CURRENT STATE (~4.0ºC)
GHG emissions continue to increase 
with no changes to current policies 
leading to significant physical risks
Lower GHG emissions, increasing transition risks and opportunities
Higher GHG emissions, increasing physical risk
RESILIENCE
Freeport strives to enhance our resilience to both physical and transitional risks associated with 
climate change for our operations, our host communities and our stakeholders.
This includes 
working to analyze and prepare for an increase in extreme weather events, water stress and other 
potential climate change impacts.
In general, 
the results of the analysis demonstrate that physical risks are highest for Freeport in the Current 
State scenario and lowest in the Aggressive Climate Action scenario.
Conversely, transition risks and 
opportunities are highest in the Aggressive Action scenario and lowest in the Current State Scenario.
The project completed development of a global average carbon footprint, 
including all scopes (1, 2 and 3) of GHG emissions.
Freeport has played a key role in this work, providing data from our mining and refining 
facilities and providing feedback in the development of the methodology.
This study remains in 
progress with expected publication of both an updated LCA profile, carbon footprint average for the 
industry and guideline for its calculation in 2022.
OUR APPROACH
Water is essential to our work and vital to the long-term sustainability of the company and our host 
communities.
We recognize 
the importance of working collaboratively with our stakeholders to secure access to water in a 
socially and environmentally responsible manner, and we are dedicated to continuously improving 
our water programs over time.
The global nature of our operations requires a tailored, site-specific approach to our water strategy.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 87
The global nature of our  operations 
requires a tailored, site-specific 
approach to our water strategy.
The number of water risk regions with poor water quality or scarce supply is increasing globally.
This 
is heightened by the drought conditions currently in the southwest United States and South America.
In the United States, we continue to monitor the water levels in the Colorado River and possible 
impacts on our operations and communities.
Our water resources are not expected to be impacted 
in 2022, and we seek to work closely with our Indigenous neighbors and host communities to assess 
and mitigate any potential future impacts.
Risk considerations include climate 
conditions, water sources, baseline water stress, excess water, litigation and access challenges.
Our water risk assessment is an iterative process that we aim to update periodically.
Over time, we 
plan to assess and, when appropriate, integrate additional critical risks to our water supply risk 
analysis — such as water quality, reputational risks, and shared water resource management — and 
in due course, the potential longer-term impacts associated with climate change.
Our “virtuous cycle of water” program at Cerro Verde serves as a model.
This infrastructure 
intercepts the effluent in the town of Arequipa and pipes it to the WWTP.
With this information, we can identify opportunities to minimize water loss, such as evaporation, 
maximize recycling and reuse, and maintain compliance with quality standards.
As responsible water stewards, we focus on 
minimizing our impacts on shared resources, 
while supporting the long-term resilience of our 
operations, host communities and the environment.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 93
RESILIENCE AND PREPARING FOR THE LONG TERM
Some of our operations are situated in challenging environments where 
enhancing resilience to the impacts of water risks is a critical part of our daily 
operations.
This includes the health, safety, and production risks of heavy 
rains, arid environments, or heat-related occupational illness.
Company-wide processes to address risks, including climate, seek to cover 
the full life cycle of our assets — from a pre-project sustainability review 
process to resiliency planning for reclamation and closure.
We plan to report more on this work 
in our forthcoming climate report.
The impacts of 
climate change, such as prolonged droughts, wildfires and sea level rise, are having a significant 
impact on biodiversity globally.
OUR APPROACH
Freeport understands that the nature of our mining and processing activities means we have a 
significant responsibility for land management and associated biodiversity.
We are committed to 
proactively managing and mitigating the impacts of our operations on biodiversity, land and surrounding 
ecosystems, which includes effectively identifying and managing biodiversity-related risks.
We seek 
to engage our employees, local communities and other interested stakeholders in conservation work.
WHC highlighted Cerro Verde’s work to 
maintain the habitat of bats, including 
protecting nesting sites and the cacti 
that produce the nectar that bats feed 
on.
We have integrated the hierarchy into our existing project development process and trained 
our environmental and operational teams to routinely apply it.
Policies & Programs
Our Environmental Policy states our commitment to contribute to the conservation of biodiversity 
including an explicit commitment not to explore nor mine at any United Nations Educational, 
Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) World Heritage Sites.
Our Environmental 
Management System (EMS) is our framework for understanding the potential impacts of our 
operations on biodiversity.
▸	 We participate in the Conservation Certification program of the Wildlife Habitat Council 
(WHC), which formally recognizes meaningful biodiversity conservation, environmental 
education and community outreach programs.
Seventeen of our operating sites and facilities 
currently are certified through WHC, 12 of which are recognized with gold-tier certifications.
In 2021, Chino, Morenci, Cerro Verde, Bagdad, Miami and Sierrita operations were recertified 
through WHC.
96
AMERICAS
We implement a variety of programs and strategies at our operations that 
seek to proactively identify and mitigate biodiversity risks while promoting 
conservation opportunities in collaboration with government agencies and 
other voluntary opportunities.
All of our North American sites implement 
Wildlife Protection Plans.
These plans are based on adaptive management 
principles to effectively address biodiversity risks resulting from operational 
and ecological changes at the sites.
In North America, we conduct regular biodiversity surveys, and that 
information is shared with regulators and other interested parties.
In 2021, 
in consultation with the U.S.
In addition, the 
biodiversity program at El Abra includes the Ascotán salt flat area.
These 
programs are designed to mitigate the impacts on biodiversity resources.
We are collaborating with conservation 
practitioners from Southwest Monarch 
Study and the Pollinator Partnership, 
establishing waystations at our Miami 
and Bisbee sites in Arizona to benefit the 
western population of monarch butterflies.
Miami and Bisbee 
operations maintain 
milkweed gardens as 
part of their longstanding 
Pollinator Conservation 
Initiative to increase and 
maintain habitats for 
Monarch butterflies.
In Peru, the team at Cerro Verde created an online 
show for local school kids in collaboration with the “Guardianes del Planeta Tierra” (Earth Guardians).
During Biodiversity and Bat Week, Morenci employees presented and facilitated activities with 
hundreds of students that explored topics such as bat conservation, soil sciences, endangered species 
and pollinators.
The company’s Native American Affairs Team collaborated with the University of 
Arizona's Project WET (Water Education for Teachers and Students) to offer a virtual water stewardship 
and conservation workshop to Freeport’s Tribal partners.
Participants were encouraged to share the 
knowledge gained from the workshop at their respective Earth Day celebrations.
The greenhouse accommodates 
up to 15,000 plants, where they are cared for until they can be replanted successfully in the 
extreme climate of the Ascotán salt flats, at an elevation of 12,141 feet in Chile.
The 2,100-square-foot greenhouse is part of the comprehensive, multi-year Environmental 
Management Plan for the site.
The greenhouse employs 
local indigenous Ascotán 
community members.
Fish and Wildlife Service to support 
conservation of federally-listed fish (spikedace and loach minnow) and birds (southwestern willow flycatcher and yellow-billed cuckoo).
Sierrita (Arizona)
Sierrita employees continued to partner with Tucson Audubon Society on their Desert Nestbox Program.
Employees installed over 60 nest 
boxes for Lucy's Warblers, Ash-throated Flycatchers, Elf Owls and Western Screech Owls at the West Desert Trails property.
With assistance 
from Hawkwatch International, employees trained retirees and other community volunteers on how to monitor the nest boxes and identify 
species that nested and successfully fledged young.
Sierrita / Tohono O’odham Nation 
(TON)
Members of the Tohono O’odham Nation’s San Xavier district collaborated with Freeport employees to salvage culturally significant species 
such as mesquite, ocotillo, wild tobacco and native cacti from Sierrita’s area of operations.
Fort Madison (Iowa)
At the Fort Madison Climax Molybdenum processing facility, the team conducted a native mussel survey and relocation in partnership with 
Lee County Conservation.
Over 5,000 mussels comprising 20 species were collected and released safely upstream.
On their field trip, students waded into the Mississippi River to collect and identify 
mussels, conduct water quality experiments and observe aquatic invertebrates.
Cerro Verde (Peru)
Cerro Verde’s biodiversity programs aim to advance species conservation and improve critical habitat for multiple plant and animal species.
In 2021, the team continued to enhance habitat for the guanaco (Lama guanicoe), relocate multiple cacti and reptile species successfully, 
propagate native plant species in greenhouse facilities and enhance biological monitoring of both native and introduced species.
The team 
hosted virtual lessons on biodiversity to local schools in support of conservation education.
From the 
mangrove forests on the coasts, the land blends into a swamp forest, then 
into the Lowland rainforests, heath forests, montane forests, and finally, 
subalpine and alpine forests in the Highlands.
The PT-FI area is adjacent to the Lorentz National Park, the largest protected 
area in Southeast Asia and the only protected area in the world that 
incorporates continuous intact tracts of ecosystems from alpine to tropical 
marine environments, including extensive lowland wetlands.
In 1999, 
Lorentz National Park was declared a World Heritage Site by the UNESCO.
Conserving and protecting Papua’s biodiversity and ecosystems is a high 
priority for both PT-FI and Freeport.
Through PT-FI’s biodiversity programs, we recognize the important role 
biodiversity plays in sustainability and seek to establish strong partnerships 
with multiple stakeholder groups involved in conservation and natural 
resource management, including governments, NGOs, universities, research 
organizations and citizens.
Biodiversity Education & Outreach Programs 
Education and outreach are major focuses of PT-FI’s biodiversity efforts, 
including construction of wildlife sanctuaries and the creation of the Natural 
Succession Discovery Park on a former tailings disposal area to serve as 
an outdoor education classroom.
To celebrate 
Environmental Month, in June, over 500 students participated in a PT-FI 
organized clean city event in Timika with the theme, “Ecosystem Restoration.” 
PT-FI environmental team 
members conduct aquatic 
species monitoring in Indonesia.
100
Research & Monitoring 
PT-FI conducts extensive research and monitoring in area ecosystems 
ranging from approximately 4,000 meters above sea level to coastal and 
marine areas.
Routine flora and fauna monitoring is conducted through 
collaboration with consultants, research organizations and universities.
In 2021, as agreed with Indonesia's Ministry of Environment and 
Forestry (MoEF), PT-FI commenced a watershed rehabilitation project 
on approximately 3,800 hectares of forest area that overlaps with our 
mining concession area.
PT-FI environmental team member 
prepares native plants for reclamation 
activities in Indonesia.
Countering 
illegal wildlife trade is a priority for Papua’s natural resource agencies and 
part of PT-FI’s commitment to biodiversity conservation.
PT-FI cooperates with the Indonesia Animal Rescue Center, Papua Regional 
Police, Forest Protection and Nature Conservation, Forest Rangers, Forestry 
Department, Lorentz National Park Center and Wasur National Park Center 
to repatriate animals seized from the illegal trade of endangered species to 
their appropriate habitats.
PT-FI built an animal rescue center at Milepost 
21.
The center will be operated by BBKSDA Papua and BBKSDA Mimika, and 
PT-FI will continue to provide support, such as manpower and facilities, for 
the rehabilitation and release of animals.
The species, named Litoria lubisi, 
is a type of large green tree frog that is a member of the Pelodryadidae 
family.
The research on Litoria lubisi was started in 2006.
PT-FI conducts extensive research 
and monitoring in area ecosystems 
ranging from approximately 4,000 
meters above sea level to coastal 
and marine areas.
Tailings are the finely ground natural rock particles 
or by-products that remain after the economically valuable minerals have been processed and 
extracted from the mined ore.
Typically, tailings are transported from processing facilities to 
management and storage facilities.
OUR APPROACH 
The health and safety of our workforce, host communities and the environment are fundamental to 
our extensive tailings management program and approach.
Our objective is to have zero fatalities, 
zero catastrophic failures, and zero unplanned discharges from any of our tailings facilities.
Freeport has comprehensive measures in place to ensure our facilities are designed, built, operated 
and monitored to minimize risk to employees, neighboring host communities and the environment.
We remain focused on the safe execution of our tailings management systems through 
interdisciplinary collaborations at our sites and corporate offices.
We host workshops, 
informational sessions and trainings for our tailings engineers.
TAILINGS MANAGEMENT 
& STEWARDSHIP
MULTI-TIERED
OVERSIGHT
MONITORING & TECHNOLOGY
LEARNING FROM
PAST EXPERIENCES
COMMUNICATION & ACTION
ENGINEERING & DESIGN
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 103
Policies & Programs
In 2021, we established a formal standalone Tailings Management Policy 
which was approved by the CRC and outlines our continued commitment to 
managing our tailings responsibly and effectively.
Through our active participation in ICMM, Freeport 
played a leadership role in the development of the Tailings Standard.
The Tailings Standard has been 
integrated into ICMM’s existing member commitments, and ICMM 
members have agreed that all tailings storage facilities with “extreme” 
or “very high” potential consequences (based on credible failure 
modes) should demonstrate conformance with the Tailings Standard by 
August 2023, and all other tailings storage facilities by August 2025.
While our existing tailings management systems are mature and robust, 
in 2021, Freeport continued to advance conformance with the Tailings 
Standard at our Americas TSFs in line with our commitment.
FACILITIES BY DESIGN & STATUS
UPSTREAM
CENTERLINE
DOWNSTREAM
Active
11
5
0
Inactive or Closed
45
5
2
Safely Closed1
5
0
0
1	 Safely Closed is defined by the Tailings Standard and requires confirmation by an external independent reviewer 
and an Accountable Executive.
We will update our disclosures annually as we work through the 
process of comparing the specifications of our TSFs against this criteria.
We strive to continuously manage, 
enhance and innovate our tailings systems 
in a manner that minimizes impacts to 
stakeholders and the environment.
104
Performance 
Freeport has invested significant time and resources to monitor our TSFs 
effectively.
In a typical year, site engineers and external EoRs conduct 
multiple in-person inspections of our TSFs, TSTs visit all active sites and 
select inactive or closed sites based on an established inspection schedule, 
and TRBs conduct quadrennial reviews.
This multi-tiered, continuous review 
and inspection process results in recommended actions, which we track 
until implemented/resolved.
TRB meetings continue to be held virtually.
GOVERNANCE - AMERICAS
In addition to CRC oversight, Freeport maintains multi-tiered 
oversight of TSFs at its operational sites: 
▸	 Corporate Senior Leadership – Executive leadership that 
participates in major decisions related to the management 
program, including allocation of resources for TSF-related 
operations, initiatives and projects.
▸	 Accountable Executive (AE) – Internal executives who report 
directly to the CEO and are accountable for the safe management 
of tailings facilities and for minimizing the social and environmental 
consequences of any TSF failures.
▸	 Responsible Tailings Facility Engineer (RTFE) – Internal 
engineers appointed by AEs and responsible for the integrity of 
assigned TSFs.
Corporate 
discipline experts provide regular support to RTFEs.
▸	 Site Tailings Management, Engineers and Operators – Internal 
team that implements the management program and regularly 
monitors, identifies and addresses potential risks.
For closed and inactive sites, we have a similar oversight structure that reports 
through the Vice President and Chief Sustainability Officer and includes the 
same roles for site-level engineers, EoRs, TSTs and TRB structures.
More information on our tailings management and stewardship program, 
including a detailed summary of our tailings facilities, can be found on 
our website.
Freeport's multi-tiered, continuous 
review and inspection process results in 
recommended actions, which we track 
until implemented.
Drone pilots support our ongoing 
tailings monitoring efforts at our 
Morenci operaitons in Arizona.
106
INDONESIA 
PT-FI operates a controlled riverine tailings management system, which was 
implemented based on methods approved and permitted by the Indonesia 
government.
Quantities of finer 
tailings and other sediments deposit in the estuary and the sea to the south.
It has been in service for more 
than 20 years and has performed reliably, safely, and in line with initial 
design plans.
GOVERNANCE - INDONESIA
PT-FI implements comprehensive and robust governance and oversight 
processes of its tailings management system.
▸	 Freeport Corporate Tailings and Water Teams – Technical 
resources that provide support and assists with guidance and 
direction for site tailings team and associated program initiatives.
▸	 Site Tailings Management, Engineers and Operators – Internal 
team that implements the program and regularly monitors, 
identifies and addresses potential risks associated with the 
ModADA and coastal zone areas.
The public announcement and initial public 
consultations were completed in mid-2020 with the nearby Amungme 
and Kamoro villages.
PT-FI continues to work with Indonesia’s MoEF to 
address full approval of the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment 
for facilities and activities associated with the transition from open-pit 
mining to underground operations; full approval is currently estimated to 
be received in 2022.
108
PT-FI ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING PROGRAM 
PT-FI maintains an extensive environmental management and 
monitoring program to assess the potential current and future 
environmental impacts from its controlled riverine tailings system.
PT-FI to spends approximately $100 million annually to manage 
and monitor the controlled system.
A multi-disciplinary, multi-department team routinely measures 
surface and groundwater quality, air quality, and biological, 
hydrological, sediment, and meteorological characteristics of the 
entire operations area.
TEL is registered with the MoEF as a Referenced 
Environmental Laboratory.
Impacts of the tailings management system, including increases 
in sedimentation, were predicted in numerous studies and are 
consistent with the design and operation approved and permitted 
by the government of Indonesia.
Risk assessments include predictive calculations that are meant to 
indicate potential exposure pathways that should be further evaluated with 
additional data collection and research.
The concentrated levels of metals in the identified 
clam species are a result of historical stormwater run-off from the Wanagon 
overburden stockpile.
To mitigate 
the possibility of erosion recurrence, PT-FI is continuing to cap the existing 
overburden stockpile with limestone and constructing additional levees and 
drainage channels to move stormwater away from the overburden stockpile.
We continue to actively monitor this matter.
The 
local health authorities are working with national medical experts at Udayana 
University supported by International SOS and experts from the University 
of Indonesia to collect and analyze the biometric data.
We currently 
expect the Mimika local health authorities to complete the survey in 2022.
Once complete, we plan to publish a summary of the HHA, including the risk 
assessment calculations and health survey results.
Responsible management of all these materials is critical to complying with 
environmental regulations, maintaining community and environmental health, and advancing social 
acceptance of our operations.
The volume of mining and mineral 
processing wastes we generate varies depending on site-specific operating plans.
These materials 
are typically managed in designated, engineered stockpiles or impoundments, as discussed in more 
detail in the prior Tailings Management section.
The team is responsible for advancing our technical 
expertise and developing leadership skills through multi-site collaboration.
Our experts provide 
guidance to support global consistency in our waste management programs and adherence to 
Freeport’s environmental policy.
We generated 295 million metric tons of tailings, 365 million metric tons of 
waste rock and overburden and 582 thousand metric tons of slag in 2021.
Our Morenci mine recycles high volumes of HDPE pipe, and coal 
ash waste generated at PT-FI’s power plant in Indonesia, is fully reutilized to 
make concrete for site construction projects.
112
Mine Closure and Reclamation 
WHY IT MATTERS 
Mining requires infrastructure projects that alter the natural environment, 
such as open-pit mines, roads, and processing facilities.
OUR APPROACH 
Freeport understands that effectively reclaiming disturbed land and 
responsibly closing our mining and processing sites is critical to maintaining 
the trust of our local communities, governments, and other interested 
stakeholders, and as such, reclamation and mine closure processes are 
integral to our site planning and ongoing operations.
Our philosophy of responsible 
production continues when we close our mining and processing sites 
through to reclamation.
At each of our 
operations, we have mine closure and reclamation plans with site-specific 
environmental measures designed to minimize long-term impacts, promote 
ecosystem reestablishment, and protect the watersheds where we operate.
To support future anticipated closure and reclamation costs, each operating 
mine site has asset retirement obligations aligned with approved closure 
plans and that are estimated and accounted for in accordance with GAAP 
and are audited by an independent accounting firm.
We plan for and carry out concurrent reclamation when and where there 
is no interference with the long term mine plans and designs.
We continually 
evaluate our sites for possible concurrent reclamation opportunities.
Reclaimed area at our 
Henderson operation, Colorado.
SAFE CLOSURE ACHIEVED AT MIAMI
 In 2021, our Tailings Review Board 
agreed that our Miami, Arizona tailings 
facilities have achieved a “safe closure” 
designation in accordance with the 
requirements of the Global Industry 
Standard on Tailings Management.
These efforts were 
integral to achieving the Safe Closure 
designation.
To learn more about the Global 
Tailings Standard, refer to the Tailings 
Management section of the report.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 113
In Colorado, we work with Trout Unlimited and the Division of Reclamation, Mining and Safety 
(DRMS) in a multi-year partnership focused on supporting a clean watershed.
OUR APPROACH
All of our mining and mineral processing operations and technology centers maintain Environmental 
Management Systems (EMS) that are certified to the ISO 14001:2015 standard.
As part of our EMS, 
our workforce is trained on site-specific subject areas, trained annually on environmental issues, 
and is supported by environmental professionals working in the field.
Critical controls are focused on the elimination of unplanned off-site 
releases and prevention or minimization of impacts to water and other natural resources.
At the corporate level, subject matter experts (SMEs) train, develop and support our site teams,  
routinely conduct site visits, and in some cases, directly manage work closely with a group of 
site-based experts.
The EMS at each of our operations are independently audited on an annual basis.
Internal corporate-led environmental compliance audits were completed at 12 sites.
Regulatory inspections increased in 2021 
with the lifting of COVID-19 travel restrictions.
The current audit, 
originally due to be completed in 2020, was further delayed in 2021 due 
to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and global health conditions.
PT-FI 
initiated the desktop portion of the audit in December 2021, with the 
in-person site visits scheduled to be performed in 2022, subject to health 
conditions on the ground.
An executive summary and responses to the 2017 
audit recommendations are posted on our website and an updated summary 
will be provided once the current audit is complete.
These 
actions are reviewed by corporate SMEs to ensure such measures are robust 
and institutionalized for the future.
We met both targets in 2021.
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE INDICATORS
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
Reportable spills or releases of hazardous or toxic chemicals1
25
17
332
19
20
NOVs related to permit exceedances, spills, releases or other 
compliance matters3
5
10
5
6
9
# of Significant Environmental Events 
(as defined on the risk matrix)
0
1
0
0
0
Cumulative environmental penalties4
$317,000
$0
$124,682
$67,100
$18,951
1	 Reportable spills excludes spills at PT-FI associated with pipeline sabotage.
Due to increased security efforts, the number of sabotage-related spills reported at PT-FI decreased from 68 in 2018, to 16 in 2019, to 8 in 2020, to 5 in 2021.
When NOVs are rescinded based on the legal appeals process, prior year data are updated.
4	 2017 penalties paid were from NOVs at Cerro Verde in 2006 and 2008.
2019 penalties paid were from NOVs at Sierrita for dust events in 2018 ($30,000) and a NOV at Cerro Verde in 2007 ($94,682).
In addition, we agreed to fund a $200,000 
Supplemental Environmental Project associated with the Sierrita dust events.
The Cerro Verde fine was paid in 2019 from a regulatory inspection conducted in 2007 due to an extended legal appeal process.
2020 penalties paid were 
principally from a Sierrita dust event ($55,000) and the failure to obtain a CO2 permit at Rotterdam ($12,000).
2021 penalties paid were associated with delays in commissioning an online, real-time groundwater monitoring system at El Abra.
