2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  2
Our Approach
Freeport is a leading responsible copper producer.
Our core values direct the decisions we make as a company and as individual 
employees.
Defining and implementing responsible production at Freeport is an iterative 
process with continuous improvement at its core.
This graphic 
describes how we implement responsible production.
GOVERNANCE
VALIDATION
POLICIES 
& PRACTICES
STAKEHOLDER 
ENGAGEMENT
VOLUNTARY 
COMMITMENTS
RISK REGISTER
ACTIONS
MEASURE 
& REPORT
Governance
Sustainability is embedded in Freeport’s values and business strategy.
Governance and oversight of sustainability starts with the Board of Directors 
(the Board) and cascades through executive leadership to our sites.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The Board oversees and guides the company’s business strategy and 
monitors the development and management of risks that impact the 
company’s strategic goals.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP (CEO / CFO)
SITE GENERAL MANAGERS
FUNCTIONAL DEPARTMENT DIRECTORS
SUSTAINABILITY LEADERSHIP TEAM
GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY NETWORK
Business Unit 
Presidents
Senior Leadership 
Functional Departments
Corporate 
Responsibility
Committee 
Governance 
Committee
Audit
 Committee
Compensation 
Committee
OPERATIONS
CORPORATE
Leadership celebrates the end of open-pit mining at Grasberg in 
2019; operations are now fully transitioned to underground mining.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  4
SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE
The Corporate Responsibility Committee (CRC), on behalf of the Board, 
is responsible for providing advice, recommendations and oversight to 
the company’s management team on environmental and social matters.
The CRC regularly reviews the effectiveness of management’s strategies, 
programs and policy implementation with respect to safety and health, 
responsible production frameworks, tailings management and stewardship, 
climate change, water stewardship, biodiversity, waste management, human 
capital management (including inclusion and diversity initiatives), human 
rights, stakeholder relations, social performance and Indigenous Peoples, 
responsible sourcing, and political activity and spending practices.
The Governance Committee 
conducts oversight of corporate governance practices and procedures.
EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY LEADERSHIP
Our Chairman and CEO has ultimate responsibility for the company’s 
sustainability performance.
In addition, members of the SLT report to 
the CRC on key ESG matters at regularly scheduled meetings.
Executive officers are held accountable for the company’s sustainability 
performance through the company’s performance-based annual incentive 
program (AIP).
In 2020, ESG metrics collectively accounted for 25% of the 
AIP (15% safety and 10% sustainability).
Our PBC is the cornerstone of our commitment to ethical business 
practices.
Anti-Corruption
Establishes the Company’s zero tolerance policy for any form of corruption, 
private- or public-sector, and prohibits facilitation payments worldwide.
Outlines procedures to meet the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA)  
and other relevant anti-corruption laws, including laws in the countries 
where we operate.
Human Rights
Outlines our commitments to respecting internationally recognized 
human rights and to implementing the United Nations Guiding Principles 
on Business and Human Rights.
The Voluntary Principles on Security and 
Human Rights are the guidelines for our security programs.
Inclusion & Diversity
Outlines our commitment to fostering a culture that is safety-focused, 
respectful, inclusive and representative of the communities where we 
operate.
Responsible Sourcing of Minerals
Outlines our commitment to producing and sourcing minerals and metals 
responsibly, including respecting human rights and preventing bribery, 
fraud and corruption, and implementing the Organisation of Economic 
Co-operation and Development (OECD) Guidelines for Responsible Mineral 
Supply Chains in Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas.
Social Performance 
Recognizes the vital role of stakeholder engagement and calls for 
collaboration with communities, including indigenous and vulnerable 
populations, to minimize and mitigate adverse impacts and pursue 
opportunities to maximize benefits (formerly called our Community Policy).
Supplier Code of Conduct
Based on the PBC, outlines our expectations for suppliers and supports 
our commitment to only do business with suppliers and contractors who 
demonstrate meeting the standards we set for ethical business conduct.
SDG 12 – Responsible Consumption and Production – is central to Freeport’s strategy of being foremost in the global 
copper industry.
SDG 12 — Responsible Production — is 
central to Freeport’s strategy of being 
foremost in the global copper industry.
Supporting education and cultural heritage 
in our host communities in Arequipa, Peru 
(photo captured pre-COVID-19).
Defining Responsible Production
Freeport is a leading responsible copper producer — foremost in copper.
Critical to this is our role in setting the 
benchmark for responsible production in the industry.
FRAMEWORK DEVELOPMENT
In 2020, we continued our work with both the ICMM and ICA to develop and implement site-based sustainability 
frameworks that aim to provide greater assurance and transparency to stakeholders while continuously improving 
conditions at our operations.
In 2020, ICA launched the Copper Mark – a continual improvement responsible production framework.
The current Copper Mark framework is focused on copper producers at the 
beginning of the supply chain, but the organization is developing criteria for fabricators and component producers 
with the goal of establishing a chain of custody for downstream companies, such as automobile and electronics 
producers.
This includes key roles in the Advisory 
Council, Due Diligence Working Group, Technical Working Group and Transparency Working Group.
We plan to achieve the Copper Mark at all of our copper operating sites.
We believe this 
approach delivers value to our shareholders by enabling an efficient 
assessment process at the site-level while providing site-level 
transparency to stakeholders locally and globally.
Our site level Copper 
Mark assessment reports can be found at coppermark.org.
THE RISK REGISTER
Being a responsible producer means evaluating ourselves against our 
commitments at both a site and corporate level and reporting regularly to 
our stakeholders in a transparent manner.
The risks included in the Risk Register are mapped from our 
commitments to enable the Risk Register to be the focal point of internal and 
external assurance at both the corporate level and operating sites.
Economic Value Contributed
We contribute to the wealth and prosperity of the countries, regions and 
communities where we operate by generating economic value that includes 
tax and royalty payments, local hiring and procurement, and community 
investments.
Mining is an inherently cyclical business with production levels 
and profits fluctuating over the life of the mine, which can impact our social 
investments and other sustainability programs.
In 2020, Freeport’s direct economic contributions totaled $11.4 billion, which 
includes $8.2 billion in payments to suppliers, $2.3 billion in employee wages 
and benefits, $692 million in payments to providers of capital, $131 million 
in taxes, royalties and other payments to governments, and $108 million in 
direct community investments.
Refer to our 2020 Annual Report for more detailed 
information on our financial performance and to page 42 of this report for 
more information on our 2020 community investments.
2020 SUMMARY OF KEY ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTIONS BY OPERATING REGION
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 
DECEMBER 31, 2020 ($ MILLIONS)
NORTH 
AMERICA1
SOUTH
AMERICA
INDONESIA
EUROPE
OTHER 
COUNTRIES
TOTAL
Payments to suppliers
$ 3,465 
$ 1,317 
$ 1,283 
$ 2,105 
$ 3 
$ 8,173 
Employee wages & benefits
$ 1,400 
$ 433 
$ 343 
$ 89 
$ 5 
$ 2,270 
Payments to providers of capital:
   Dividends & distributions
$ 73 
$ 0 
$ 0 
$ 0 
$ 0 
$ 73 
   Interest
$ 405 
$ 121 
$ 86 
$ 7 
$ 0 
$ 619 
(Refunds from) payments to governments2
($ 194)
$ 31 
$ 287 
$ 4 
$ 3 
$ 131 
Community investments
$ 35 
$ 5 
$ 67 
$ 1 
$ 0 
$ 108 
Direct economic contributions
$ 5,184 
$ 1,907 
$ 2,066 
$ 2,206 
$ 11 
$ 11,374 
Capital expenditures3
$ 476 
$ 183 
$ 1,266 
$ 36 
 $ 0 
$ 1,961 
1	 Includes FCX parent company results.
3	 Includes costs for capital projects, which include additional payments to suppliers, employee wages and benefits, payments to providers of capital and payments to governments, not included in the payments to government line in table above.
Note: These amounts were derived primarily from FCX’s publicly reported segment data.
3 	 Significant environmental event is defined as a 
consequence rating of 3 or higher on our Risk Register.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  18
Business Integrity
Freeport is committed to the highest level of ethical and legal conduct in 
all of our business activities.
By keeping this in mind, we aspire to earn the 
respect, trust and confidence of our stakeholders.
Anti-Corruption & Compliance
WHY IT MATTERS
Engaging in corruption or bribery is not only illegal but can permanently 
damage a company’s business relationships and workforce morale.
OUR APPROACH
Freeport maintains zero tolerance for corruption of any kind, and we expect 
the same from our employees, contractors and suppliers.
We do not obtain a 
business advantage through bribery, improper payments, kickbacks or any 
other illegal means.
Our Anti-Corruption Policy and Guidelines require compliance with the 
FCPA and other applicable laws of the countries and jurisdictions where 
we operate.
FCeX is a survey-based 
software platform designed to assess risk in the areas of anti-corruption, 
international trade, human rights and responsible minerals sourcing.
FCeX 
enhances our ability to identify, assess and mitigate compliance risks.
Freeport maintains zero 
tolerance for corruption of 
any kind, and we expect the 
same from our employees, 
contractors and suppliers.
To 
encourage our workforce to report potential violations of business conduct, 
our Compliance Line enables anonymous reporting.
We believe making compliance relatable 
and part of our employees' daily routine promotes a strong 
ethical culture and creates consistency in decision-making.
In addition, automotive 
and electronics original equipment manufacturers have received significant 
pressure from shareholders and other stakeholders to improve due 
diligence in their supply chains, which is increasing expectations on 
minerals producers globally.
This makes copper a crucial contributor to the energy transition 
and a decarbonized world.
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING OF GOODS & SERVICES
Our Supplier Code of Conduct and compliance screening processes are the 
foundation of our responsible sourcing program for goods and services.
Responsible sourcing of goods and services is led by our Global Supply 
Chain Sustainability Manager under the oversight of the SLT with support 
from the Human Rights Working Group.
This work is a significant task, as it 
equates to over 20,000 suppliers that provide a wide variety of goods and 
services – from small catering businesses in remote locations to large multi-
nationals that produce heavy machinery.
In Colorado, a collaboration with local sustainable 
distilleries produced a reliable and sustainable source of generic wipes and 
cleaning solutions.
In Arizona, local hardware stores provided PPE such as 
face coverings.
These examples demonstrate our commitment to support our 
local communities and the critical role they play in daily operations.
The 
FCeX is the company’s online due diligence platform.
This survey-based 
software platform is designed to assess risk in areas of anti-corruption, 
international trade and human rights.
FCeX has enhanced our ability 
to identify, assess and mitigate compliance risks.
We will track these 
assessments and resulting actions, engagement and approvals for 
ongoing supplier life cycle management.
The Policy describes how we implement 
the OECD Guidelines on Mineral Supply Chains in Conflict-Affected and 
High-Risk Areas in our supply chain of minerals and metals.
We previously implemented a similar policy at our Kokkola cobalt refinery 
in Finland.
To do this, we assess our incoming metal and mineral supply chains to 
identify potential “flags” with regard to what are defined as Annex II risks – 
such as bribery and corruption, human trafficking, and child or forced 
labor – by the OECD Guidelines.
In 2020, Freeport played an important role in the development of a Base 
Metals Due Diligence Standard managed by the Copper Mark.
The standard was 
published in February 2021 by the Copper Mark and its partners.
In early 2020, 
the International Copper Association (ICA) launched a project to update the 
current global LCA profile for copper concentrate and cathode.
Freeport 
plays a key role in this study, providing data from our mining and refining 
facilities.
The project was relaunched 
in early 2021 and its focus expanded to include developing a methodology 
for the carbon footprint of copper.
In addition to operating in the United States, we have significant operations 
in Chile, Indonesia, Peru and Spain.
The company’s political activity and spending practices are overseen and 
approved by senior management.
Annually, the Board’s CRC reviews our 
political activity and spending practices.
Our practice is to make information concerning all political contributions 
available to our stakeholders annually by posting our political contributions 
to the sustainability section of our website.
OUR APPROACH 
Freeport ’s tax strategy seeks to balance the economic considerations of our 
host governments and stakeholders with our business objectives.
Tax risks are identified and 
monitored by a global team of tax professionals, which assists in executing our 
tax affairs in line with our strategy, PBC and internal control policies.
We are 
committed to fully cooperating with all tax authorities and providing access 
to accounting and governance documentation as requested.
We advocate for the development of fair and predictable tax laws in 
jurisdictions where we conduct business on issues that are important to our 
business and the industry.
The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) is a global standard 
to promote transparent and accountable management of natural resources.
We maintain significant mining operations in Indonesia 
and Peru, both of which are EITI-implementing countries, and we actively 
support and participate in associated in-country processes.
In addition to our country-level EITI commitments and regulatory reporting 
obligations, our practice is to provide transparency by voluntarily reporting 
cash payments to governments in all jurisdictions where we conduct 
business, as presented in the table below.
CASH PAYMENTS TO GOVERNMENTS1
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 
DECEMBER 31, 2020 ($ MILLIONS)
U.S.
CHILE
PERU
INDONESIA
OTHER 
COUNTRIES²
TOTAL
Corporate Income Taxes, Net of Refunds
($ 216)
$ 2 
$ 5 
$ 155 
$ 7 
($ 47)
Withholding Taxes on Foreign Dividends
$ 1 
$ 1 
-  
$ 4 
-  
$ 6 
Employee Payroll Taxes3
$ 337 
$ 10 
$ 51 
$ 69 
$ 28 
$ 495 
Dividends
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
Royalties & Net Severance Taxes
$ 22 
-  
$ 24 
$ 132 
-  
$ 178 
Property Taxes
$ 72 
-  
-  
$ 68 
$ 2 
$ 142 
Other Taxes & Fees4
$ 48 
$ 9 
$ 48 
$ 171 
($ 12)
$ 264 
Total
$ 264 
$ 22 
$ 128 
$ 599 
$ 25 
$ 1,038 
1	 This schedule reflects a voluntary effort by FCX to capture its cash payments to governments (net of refunds).
Amounts presented do not reflect payments on assessment under dispute.
Amounts presented reflect credits from prior years, as applicable.
3	 Includes payroll taxes collected on behalf of employees and paid to governments.
Cerro Verde 
donated oxygen tanks and an oxygen generating plant to hospitals in Arequipa, Peru.
To support our employees and their families, we adjusted our policies for 
sick leave and other pay practices.
We collaborated with partner organizations, medical institutions, charities 
and local governments to provide additional guidance, resources and 
support to our stakeholders.
Despite the unquestionable hardships and difficulties brought on by the 
pandemic, our workforce emerged more flexible, innovative and agile.
Freeport understands its global workforce and host communities are the 
foundation of its success.
We understand the safety of our workforce is critical to our operational success and 
efficiency and ultimately to our ability to deliver long-term value to our stakeholders.
Our objective is to achieve zero 
workplace fatalities and to decrease injuries and occupational illnesses.
We are committed to creating a safe and 
healthy workplace and providing the training, tools and resources needed so our workforce can identify risks and 
consistently apply effective controls.
We rolled out our 2020 Safe Production Matters strategy, which aims to align global priorities, empower safe work 
behaviors and strengthen our safety culture.
Our Vice President of Health and Safety oversees safety in the organization, including implementation of company-
wide initiatives, safety audit programs and incident investigations.
Safety performance is reported regularly to 
executive management, and we review and discuss all fatalities with the CRC and the Board.
Policies & Programs
›	 Safety and Health Policy — States our commitments, processes and management systems to meet our health 
and safety objectives.
›	 Contractor Health and Safety Manual — Defines the minimum expectations and requirements for contractors 
working at our operations.
›	 Occupational Health and Safety Management System — Our framework for managing risks and compliance 
obligations is certified in accordance to OHSAS 18001.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  28
COVID-19 RESPONSE & MANAGEMENT
We started 2020 focused on implementing our Safe Production Matters 
strategy.
This included providing frequent and timely information to educate, equip 
and protect our workforce.
Safety team members 
located on site continued to monitor operations from the field, while 
corporate health and safety team members largely communicated 
virtually.
Protecting our workforce
Supporting our local communities
Maintaining resiliency and value
FATAL RISK MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
Our Fatal Risk Management (FRM) program is aimed at achieving our objective of zero workplace fatalities by focusing 
on preventative measures.
As part of the program, we seek to identify potentially fatal risks in the field and apply 
the controls most critical for avoidance.
We have a mobile platform 
available to assist field supervisors through a critical control checklist.
Finally, we review and discuss all fatalities 
with the Board and the CRC.
PERFORMANCE
We measure our safety performance through regularly established benchmarks, including our company-wide Total 
Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) that includes both employees and contractors.
In 2020, our Freeport workforce 
worked 121 million hours and recorded 418 reportable injuries during the year, compared with 142 million hours and 
528 reportable injuries in 2019.
Our objective remains zero fatalities.
2020 WORKPLACE FATALITIES
February 2020
A vehicle operator was fatally injured 
after losing control of their vehicle.
Contractor
November 2020
An environmental crew member was 
fatally injured when an explosion 
occurred on a small survey vessel 
during a gasoline leak repair.
Contractor
December 2020
A rock fall protection team member 
fatally fell from a temporary walkway 
while mitigating landslide risk.
Employee

Additionally, the PT-FI Safety Board established targets for increasing the 
frequency and number of critical control field verifications related to fatal risks 
to support leaders in driving accountability.
PT-FI is integrating an enhanced 
mobile FRM application where critical control verifications are entered in the 
field in real-time, facilitating prompt response to identified deficiencies.
PT-FI has developed an upgraded contractor screening process, and in 2021, 
will be applying it to existing and newly established contractors to verify that 
they meet health and safety performance expectations.
In the case of a workplace fatality, 
we assist with funeral arrangements as appropriate.
In addition, senior 
leadership reviews the evaluation of each incident  to determine compensation 
for the family, irrespective of liability and in addition to local requirements.
We 
encourage our contractors to approach these types of incidents in a similar 
manner and, depending on the facts and circumstances, we are involved in 
providing or supplementing contractor assistance.
High Risk Events 
In 2020, the percentage of high-risk safety incidents continued to trend 
downward, reflecting our sharp focus on workplace tasks with the highest 
potential consequences in line with our Safe Production Matters strategy.
TOTAL RECORDABLE EVENTS (% HIGH RISK1)
50+92+44+44+28
25%
20%
15%
10%
5%
0
13%
23%
11%
11%
7%
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
1	 Our Sustainable Development Risk Matrix defines 
high-risk events as incidents that have the potential 
to result in a permanent disability or a fatality.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  30
HEALTH & SAFETY PERFORMANCE DATA
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
Total Recordable Events
459
433
466
528
418
% High Risk1
13%
23%
11%
11%
7%
Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)2
0.71
0.75
0.71
0.74
0.69
TRIR Annual Target
0.56
0.63
 0.70 
0.73
0.70
Number of Fatalities
6
5
1
3
5
1	 Our Sustainable Development Risk Matrix defines high-risk events as incidents that have the potential to result in 
permanent disabilities or a fatality.
Note: Above safety statistics include both employees and contractors at all of our locations.
PT-FI trains and educates all underground 
employees on underground hazards, risk controls and safety procedures to prepare them to safely and efficiently perform their assigned work.
The training begins in surface classrooms and progresses to on-the-job training and competency verification in underground work areas.
PT-FI invests significant effort and resources into proactive management of the safety and health risks that exist in underground operations, including: 
›	 Autonomous and remote-operated equipment to reduce workforce exposure to ground failure, wet muck spills and air contaminants.
›	 A comprehensive Ground Control Management Plan developed by industry leading geotechnical experts that specifies critical controls and 
drives continual improvement in ground support designs, practices and geotechnical monitoring systems.
Controls routinely are verified for 
their effectiveness by PT-FI's Underground Steering Committee comprised of underground mine Vice Presidents and Senior Management and 
subject matter experts in geotechnical engineering, mining engineering and safety.
›	 Underground fire prevention and preparedness plans overseen by PT-FI’s Underground Fire Committee control of combustible materials; 
extensive fire suppression systems on mobile equipment, shops and conveyor systems; emergency warning systems; firefighting teams and 
equipment; and refuge stations to provide shelter and clean air for personnel if an underground fire were to occur.
As a member of ICMM, we are 
actively engaged in discussions to develop a guideline for consistent 
industry disclosures on this topic.
ARTISANAL MINING IN PAPUA 
At our PT-FI operations in Indonesia, illegal artisanal miners seek 
unrecovered gold from our milling operations by panning in our 
controlled riverine tailings system.
On average, approximately 4,500 
artisanal miners are in the Lowlands and 750 are in the Highlands.
Artisanal mining in the area is illegal.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  32
Workforce
WHY IT MATTERS
Freeport believes a diverse, inclusive and representative workforce offers a broad range of experience, knowledge, 
background, culture and heritage, which can drive innovation, enhance our operational performance and improve 
our relationships with stakeholders.
The key to our success is the ability to recruit, retain, develop and advance 
talented employees with diverse perspectives.
We are committed to fostering a culture that is safety-focused, respectful, inclusive and 
representative of the communities where we operate.
These global policies are publicly available and translated in the local languages 
of the regions where we operate, and it is our expectation that our workforce understands and complies with our 
trainings, policies and procedures.
PERFORMANCE
At the end of 2020, Freeport’s global workforce was comprised of approximately 24,500 employees and 33,800 
contractors.
Our total employee 
turnover rate increased to 15% in 2020 from 9% in 2019, which was largely driven by North America where we 
offered Voluntary Separation Programs (VSP) in response to uncertain economic conditions related to the pandemic.
We do not tolerate any form of harassment or discrimination 
against individuals based on race, color, sex, religion, national origin, 
disability, age, veteran’s status or any other characteristic protected by 
applicable law.
Approximately 
38% of our global employee population is covered by a collective labor 
agreement (CLA).
Our operations in Indonesia, Europe 
and South America are all covered by a minimum of 66% representation.
Updated in 2019 with input from 
employees, the Guiding Principles include a problem-solving process 
that complements our broader employee grievance mechanism and adds 
significant value to both our workforce and the company.
We openly engage with our employee and union leadership to negotiate 
and uphold labor agreements, recognizing that prolonged strikes or other 
work stoppages can adversely affect our business, our workforce and 
regional stakeholders.
We 
quickly reached an amicable resolution with the group of workers, while 
upholding our COVID-19 safety protocols.
The COVID-19 pandemic radically shifted our 
traditional organizational systems and means of working and collaborating.
The company began implementing the values and principles of an agile workplace in early 2019 at select sites in North 
America.
In 2020, we completed a value impact assessment of the human resources functions and advanced our digital 
collaboration efforts.
As part of this transformation effort, informed in part by the OHI survey results and employee feedback, we developed 
and rolled out Freeport Edge to support a high-performance culture.
In 2021, the human resources team will be focused on 
enhancing our formal performance management processes and establishing 
more consistent formal feedback processes between employee and 
supervisor, while continuing to promote our informal feedback and dialogue 
culture.
For unionized employees, we will continue to follow local protocols 
to make the connection between employee skills and competencies with 
business performance.
We 
proactively communicate information to our employees.
We 
established a pulse-check program to measure progress against our 
baseline.
Diversity & Local Hiring 
Freeport is committed to fostering a culture that is inclusive and representative 
of the communities where we operate.
Local employment directly contributes to the economic 
and social development of surrounding communities.
46+54+J
NORTH
AMERICA 98+2+J
INDONESIA 22+66+12+J
GLOBAL
 BY AGE 99+1+J
GLOBAL 
BY NATIONALITY
47% Racially or 
Ethnically Diverse
98% Indonesian 
Nationals
1%
Expatriates
22% 
Over 50
12% 
Under 30
40% Indigenous 
Papuan
99% In-Country 
Nationals
66% Between
30-50
GLOBAL EMPLOYEES (as of December 31, 2020)
Note: Figures exclude contractors
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  38
Hiring locally is a commitment we make to our host communities.
We aspire for the diversity of 
our global workforce to reflect the diversity of the communities where we 
operate.
In Indonesia, 98% of our PT-FI 
employee base is Indonesian, 40% of whom are Papuan.
We will be considering ways to collect and gather the most 
meaningful data for each of our operations.
Gender Diversity
Gender diversity continues to be an important focus for Freeport.
Our percentage 
of women in executive management and management-level positions 
increased to 13% in both categories, from 11% and 12%, respectively.
Refer to the Communities section of this report for more about our 
work to support and enhance gender diversity in our communities.
The percentage of women in our global workforce remained at 13% in 2020.
Our gender representation target remains at 15% women comprising our 
global workforce.
Unfortunately, in 2020, female representation decreased 
in the Americas, partly driven by higher turnover at our North American 
corporate offices, which has a higher concentration of women than our 
operating sites, and at our operations in Peru, where retaining women in 
the workforce during the COVID-19 pandemic was particularly challenging 
due to familial roles.
90+55+30+35+90
20%
15%
10%
5%
0
18%
11%
6%
7%
18%
2020 WOMEN EMPLOYED BY LOCATION (%)
North America
Chile
Peru
Indonesia
Europe / Other
FCX Global
13% FCX 
Global Average
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  40
FAIR & EQUAL REMUNERATION PRACTICES 
Our approach to compensation and benefits is market-based and competitive 
and informed by annual benchmarking and analysis.
We are committed to 
respecting the rights of our workforce, including paying fair and equal wages.
BSR’s living wage benchmark exceeds the minimum 
country wage in all 14 locations assessed.
The analysis found that of the 
more than 21,000 employees in these locations, all employees met BSR’s 
living wage benchmark for their respective locations.
Communities
WHY IT MATTERS
The relationship between a mine and nearby communities is dynamic.
Mining is an inherently cyclical business with production levels and 
profits fluctuating over the life of the mine.
Further, increasing 
automation and shifts in the global economy are changing mining methods, 
processes and labor requirements.
OUR APPROACH
Freeport works actively through engagement, investment and partnership 
activities to support host communities in maximizing the social and 
economic benefits of mining.
Our work is focused on supporting our 
communities to develop the requisite skills to successfully adapt to 
technological and economic changes in the future to reduce their 
dependency on mining over the long term.
Constructive dialogue is at the foundation of our relationships with 
host communities and stakeholders.
Policies & Programs
›	 Social Performance Policy (previously called Community Policy) – 
Mandates engagement and collaboration with local communities to 
minimize and mitigate unavoidable adverse impacts while maximizing 
opportunities to deliver value from our presence.
A cross-functional team, 
including representatives from operations, sustainability and senior 
leadership, has been actively involved in the design with rollout 
planned for 2021.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  42
ENGAGEMENT
Traditionally, we engage with our host communities in person through 
Community Partnership Panels in the U.S., Community Roundtables in 
South America and community development and empowerment teams in 
Indonesia.
With the onset of COVID-19 in early 2020, our community engagement teams 
quickly pivoted to virtual or socially distanced formats.
We sought to reach these communities by phone, when available, and held 
socially distanced meetings with some stakeholders.
In addition, some of the 
Tribes in North America closed access to their reservations to prevent the 
spread of COVID-19, limiting our access to engage and support them directly.
SOCIAL INVESTMENTS 
Our social investment programs are funded directly through each operation 
and the respective foundation or community trust funds we have established 
and maintain in the U.S., Chile, Peru and Indonesia.
Our revenue and corresponding 
community investments tend to vary year over year due to a variety of 
factors, including the cyclical nature of our business.
Resiliency means the ability to anticipate 
and consider potential scenarios and corresponding responses, and 
pivot from changes in mine plans and unforeseeable events, such as the 
COVID-19 pandemic and impacts from climate change.
›	 Our South America operations donated food, medical equipment, 
medical supplies and PPE to local communities to support COVID-19 
relief efforts.
In Chile, our El Abra operations donated ventilators, 
medical supplies and a fully-equipped ambulance to local organizations.
The center will house public health and human services, 
primary medical care, mental and behavioral health, and veterans 
services.
Indonesia	
›	 PT-FI and the Amungme and Kamoro Community Empowerment 
Foundation (YPMAK) gave a combined $1.6 million to support 
national, provincial and regency government COVID-19 mitigation 
efforts during 2020.
PT-FI donated PPE 
to the Indonesian Red Cross and the East Java branch of the Indonesia 
Chamber of Commerce and Industry.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  44
CAPACITY BUILDING 
Individual, institutional and economic capacity building continues to be a 
primary focus of our work with communities.
These efforts underpin our 
contribution to the SDGs.
Students receive full 
scholarships and funding from the Papua Provincial Government for 
international travel, tuition, books, and room and board.
Each student 
is assigned a Freeport or PT-FI mentor who assists with academic 
goal setting, time management, resume writing and job interview 
techniques.
The program commenced with 57 mentees in Fall 2020, 
of which 68% are women.
15% of our community investments were 
in economic opportunities, small business 
initiatives and the infrastructure of our 
communities globally.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  46
WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT & DEVELOPMENT
In 2020, cumulative enrollment in our women’s economic empowerment 
and leadership programs reached a significant milestone, surpassing 
100,000 women.
We believe inclusive and diverse communities that 
enable full and equal participation of women are stronger and more 
resilient over the long term.
Freeport partners with WEConnect International and Vital Voices to support 
women's empowerment and leadership.
Freeport joined Vital Voices in launching VVEngage to 
empower and prepare women to serve in public leadership roles where they 
can affect change in public policy and increase equality of benefits for women.
In that time, we invested $33.3 million, 
that enabled participation of 2.9 million direct beneficiaries, which yielded 
1.37 million “successes.” The “success” metric includes a measure of how lives 
are improved or what additional ongoing value is gained resulting from the 
company’s initial social investments.
These highly leveraged 
investments generate more social impact than typical philanthropy, increasing 
social value to the community and social return on investment.
Grievances then are reported to 
the site Community Grievance Officer, who relays the grievance to the relevant department for evaluation.
For grievances with potentially high 
community impacts, senior management and applicable government authorities are engaged as appropriate.
Process improvements include, but are 
not limited to, access accommodations for vulnerable groups, guidance on impact assessment and remedy, and 
establishment of a formal feedback loop to inform continuous improvement.
42+38+12+7+1+J
2020 GRIEVANCES
United States	
59
Indonesia	
53
Chile	
17
Peru	
10
Europe	
1
COMMUNITY
GRIEVANCES
TOTAL: 140
27+22+15+12+10+6+4+4+0+J
Community Benefits	
27%
Environment 	
22%
Health & Safety	
15%
Other1	
12%
Land Rights	
10%
Physical Damage 	
6%
Employment 	
4%
Cultural Heritage	
4%
GRIEVANCE
TOPICS (%)
1	 Other includes security, town site / housing 
and other grievances not listed above.
We track grievances, 
identify thematic trends, 
report resolutions and 
measure our performance.
These populations inhabit landscapes that 
collectively hold some of the world’s most diverse peoples, languages, 
cultures and biodiversity.
We are steadfast 
in our commitment to engage with indigenous groups, and importantly, to 
foster long-term relationships built on transparency and trust to earn and 
maintain our social license to operate.
OUR APPROACH
Freeport’s stakeholder engagement and social investment objectives include 
formal interactions with Indigenous Peoples in Papua, Indonesia; Native 
Americans in the United States; and the traditional communities of Alto El Loa 
in Chile.
This list is not exhaustive and is 
not static.
Our approach aims to respect the social, economic and cultural rights of 
Indigenous Peoples, including supporting their effective representation 
and participation in engagements with our company.
The 
overarching goal of the process was to develop a practice that facilitates 
trust by supporting ongoing relationships, fostering transparency and 
creating shared value over time.
We began with a workshop facilitated by experts in indigenous relations to 
support our understanding of our current relationships with Native American 
tribes and to determine areas and key goals for improvement.
Freeport has 
an internal Native American affairs team who provided critical guidance 
and leadership through this effort and continue to do so on an ongoing 
basis.
The team’s expertise, knowledge and perspectives are invaluable 
to informing and educating our company’s practices.
A critical component of the approach is the establishment and maintenance 
of dedicated trust building teams at our operations.
In 2021, we will continue to 
apply the Building Trust approach at our U.S. sites and begin adaptation and 
implementation at our international sites.
A Project Dreamcatcher graduate, small 
business owner, Hualapai Tribe member, 
pictured with her daughter in Arizona.
Additionally, we supported 
the Hualapai Tribe with funds to retrofit tribal office workspaces, allowing 
tribal business to continue amid social distancing and tribal public health 
ordinances.
In early 2020 at our El Abra operation in Chile, we delivered 10 thousand liters 
of water to the neighboring communities of Ayquina and Cupo located in the El 
Loa Province, Antofagasta Region, where water scarcity is historically high and 
few communities have access to potable drinking water.
The municipality of Calama delivers water once a month to the 
communities.
In 2020, in cooperation with the Mimika Catholic Diocese, PT-FI helped 
establish a retail grocery store in Otakwa, providing food and necessities to 
nearby coastal communities including fishermen.
PT-FI supports local businesses  
such as the Amungme Gold Coffee 
Company in Papua, Indonesia.
This program is particularly important, as we continue 
to identify mechanisms and solutions to increase equity in education.
Our DreamCatcher program, aimed at empowering Native American women 
entrepreneurs, consists of an intensive week of MBA-level business classes 
taught by Thunderbird School of Global Management faculty, site visits to 
local businesses and professional development and networking sessions 
with successful business owners.
In response to COVID-19, DreamCatcher pivoted to an open online platform 
where 19 webinars were hosted for 260 tribal participants, significantly 
expanding program reach.
We continually invest in our host communities in Papua by implementing 
programs to support capacity building through the development of 
their skills and employability.
Our Papuan Sustainable Human Capital 
Development Program is designed to increase opportunities for Indigenous 
Papuans to join our workforce directly or through contractors that support 
our operations.
We continue 
to identify 
mechanisms 
and solutions to 
increase equity 
in education.
We seek to support our Indigenous neighbors 
through capacity building and educational opportunities.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  52
Human Rights
WHY IT MATTERS
Human rights are internationally recognized, defined in the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights and codified in international law.
Freeport respects internationally recognized human rights, including 
the rights under the International Bill of Human Rights, and is committed to 
implementing the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human 
Rights (UNGPs).
OUR APPROACH
Respect is a core value for Freeport.
Respecting human rights is a business imperative and unique opportunity.
We aim to promote human rights through proactive engagement with 
host governments and communities and by training our employees and 
contractors.
Our corporate level Human Rights Working Group supports our 
site-level implementation of the UNGPs.
We participate in multi-industry dialogues on respect for human rights, 
including Business for Social Responsibility’s human rights working 
group, Sustainability 50’s executive-level peer-to-peer collaboration 
and information exchange on multiple topics including human rights and 
responsible supply chains, ICMM’s Community Support Working Group, 
and the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights (VPs).
Policies & Programs
›	 Human Rights Policy – States our commitments to the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights, the UNGPs and the VPs.
In late 2020, we 
updated our Human Rights Policy to strengthen our commitments and 
incorporate our value chain approach.
We mandate human rights standards through our 
supplier contracts.
›	 Responsible Sourcing of Minerals Policy – Our Responsible 
Sourcing of Minerals Policy commits our business to identifying and 
mitigating human rights violations in our supply chains of minerals 
and metals for our downstream processing facilities.
CORPORATE HUMAN RIGHTS BENCHMARK
In 2020, the CHRB assessed Freeport’s human rights program and performance.
Visit the CHRB website for more information.
Teams held weekly meetings 
with critical sites to discuss and address complex issues brought on by the 
pandemic.
Protecting our workforce from the virus was paramount.
Similarly, at our PT-FI operations in Indonesia, in order to limit potential 
exposures to our workforce and the communities, we enacted travel 
restrictions between our operations in the Highlands and the communities 
in the Lowlands where most of our employees live.
As we gained experience 
with COVID-19 protocols and listened to feedback from our workforce and 
communities, we responded and adjusted workforce COVID-19 requirements.
This process is developed by ongoing stakeholder 
engagement, grievance management and the results of human rights 
impact assessments (HRIAs).
Our primary method of conducting specific human rights due diligence at our 
operations is through HRIAs.
They involve direct input from a broad cross-
section of internal and external rights-holders and support continuous 
improvement of our management systems by testing their effectiveness in 
identifying and addressing potential, actual and perceived human rights 
risks and impacts.
Then, as a 
result of COVID-19, we were unable to restart as planned.
We are restarting 
the HRIA in 2021 with a virtual approach to field work and expect to complete 
the assessment during the year.
Our responsible sourcing programs require human rights due diligence on 
suppliers of both goods and services, and minerals and metals for further 
processing.
In 2020, PT-FI continued its Human Rights Ambassador program, providing 
representatives from contractor companies with train-the-trainer instruction 
on human rights and the VPs.
Our implementation is primarily focused 
on Indonesia and Peru, which are higher risk jurisdictions for security and 
human rights matters.
Contracts 
with private security providers include requirements to comply with both 
our Human Rights Policy and the VPs.
Memorandums of Understanding 
are maintained with host governments detailing the working relationship 
between the company and the public security personnel assigned to it.
Refer to our annual reports to the 
Voluntary Principles Plenary on our website for more information.
In Papua, where our Grasberg minerals district is 
located, separatist groups have sought increased political independence for 
the province.
Updates to our community grievance mechanism 
are being rolled out in 2021 to incorporate the effectiveness criteria outlined 
in the UNGPs.
Photo captured pre-COVID-19 
at our Atlantic Copper smelter and refinery in Spain.
Environmental protection and 
stewardship are critical to the 
long-term viability of our business.
Educators teach visitors about the tailings deposition area at our demonstration area in 
Papua, Indonesia, which is part of the reclamation and revegetation program at PT-FI.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  56
Environment
Freeport recognizes that mining impacts the natural environment.
Our 
goal is to conduct our mining and processing operations in a manner that 
minimizes adverse impacts on the environment and supports protection of 
the ecosystems through responsible environmental stewardship.
We are 
committed to sound environmental practices at all of our operations with a 
focus on continuous improvement.
POLICIES & PROGRAMS
Our Environmental Policy serves as the framework for the protection of 
natural resources in the regions where we live and work.
All of our mining and mineral processing operations and technology centers 
maintain Environmental Management Systems (EMS) certified to the ISO 
14001:2015 standard.
As part of our EMS, our workforce is trained on site-
specific subject areas, receives annual environmental refresher training and 
is supported in the field by environmental professionals through our Boots 
in the Field program.
Critical controls are particularly focused on the 
elimination of unplanned off-site releases and prevention or minimization of 
impacts to water and other natural resources.
At the corporate level, we maintain subject matter experts (SMEs) who train, 
develop and support site teams, routinely conduct site visits and manage 
a group of site-based SMEs.
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE INDICATORS
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
Reportable spills or releases of hazardous or toxic chemicals1
33
25
17
33 
192
NOVs related to permit exceedances, spills, or releases or other 
compliance matters3 
5
5
10
5
7
# of Significant Environmental Events (as defined by the Risk Register) 
-
-
1
-
-
Cumulative Environmental Penalties4
-
$ 317,000
- 
$ 124,682
$ 67,100
1	 Reportable spills excludes spills at PT-FI associated with pipeline sabotage.
Due to increased security efforts, the number of sabotage-related spills reported at PT-FI decreased from 68 in 2018 to 16 in 2019 to 8 in 2020.
4	 2017 penalties paid were from NOVs at Cerro Verde in 2006 and 2008.
2019 penalties paid were from NOVs at Sierrita for dust events in 2018 ($30,000) and a NOV at Cerro Verde in 2007 ($94,682).
In addition, we agreed to fund a $200,000 
Supplemental Environmental Project associated with the Sierrita dust events.
The Cerro Verde fine was paid in 2019 from a regulatory inspection conducted in 2007 due to extended legal appeal process.
2020 penalties paid were principally 
from a Sierrita dust event ($55,000) and the failure to obtain a CO2 permit at Rotterdam ($12,000).
Note: Excludes data from the Tenke Fungurume mine, which was sold in November 2016.
PERFORMANCE
The EMS at each of our operations are independently audited on an annual 
basis.
Inspections were 
down significantly year over year due to COVID-19 travel restrictions and 
safety protocols.
Early in 2020, we revised operating plans due to COVID-19, 
which included suspending operations at our Chino mine, lowering mining 
rates at El Abra and deferring all nonessential projects.
Additionally, 
Cerro Verde’s mining and milling rates were impacted by the government-
mandated temporary shutdown.
Subject to global health conditions, we will seek to initiate the 
audit in the fourth quarter of 2021.
These 
actions are reviewed by corporate SMEs to ensure such measures are robust 
and institutionalized for the future.
We met both targets in 2020.
Mining is energy-intensive and generates significant greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions that contribute to climate change.
We remain dedicated 
to supplying the global economy with responsibly produced copper and 
operating in a manner that manages and mitigates our GHG emissions and 
other climate-related risks.
›	 Reduction: We strive to manage, mitigate and reduce our GHG 
emissions where possible.
›	 Resilience: We strive to enhance our resilience to both physical and 
transitional risks associated with climate change for our operations, 
our host communities and our stakeholders.
This includes working 
proactively to analyze and prepare for extreme weather events, water 
stress and other climate change impacts.
This includes collaborating 
with partners in our value chain, with the ultimate goal of meeting the 
goals of the Paris Agreement.
Solar panels were installed at a host community 
church by the El Abra mining operation in Chile.
We plan to provide more detail in our upcoming 2020 Climate Report.
In 2020, our absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 global emissions decreased by 8% from the prior year to 7.1 million 
metric tons, which was driven predominantly by reduced production and stripping at our Americas operations due to 
operational changes associated with our COVID-19 response, uncertain economic conditions and PT-FI operations 
transition from open pit to underground during the year.
63+28+9+J
FMC Mining	
63%
PT-FI	
28%
Downstream Processing	 9%
2020
GHG EMISSIONS
(%)
46+22+17+7+7+1+J
Natural Gas	
46%
Hydro	
22%
Coal, Other Fossil	
18%
Nuclear	
7%
Solar, Wind, Geothermal	 7%
Other	
<1%
2020
PURCHASED POWER
BY SOURCE
(%)
FCX'S 2020
ABSOLUTE GLOBAL
GHG EMISSIONS ARE
21%
LOWER
THAN IN 2016
10,000,000
8,000,000
6,000,000
4,000,000
2,000,000
0
Scope 2
Scope 1
2016 
2017 
2018 
2019 
2020
GLOBAL ABSOLUTE GHG EMISSIONS
CO2e METRIC TONS
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  60
Reduction
In 2020, we advanced plans for achieving our 15% reduction target in the 
Americas.
This included progressing evaluation work on our renewable 
energy opportunities in the Americas, which is focused on reducing Scope 
2 emissions.
We signed an agreement at our El Abra operations in Chile to 
source 100% of its energy consumption from renewables starting in 2021.
On an absolute basis, we have reduced 
our total GHG emissions for the Americas business to approximately 4.6 
million metric tons, which is 6% lower than 2019 total emissions and 
24% lower than our Business as Usual projections.
Performance against 
our 15% intensity target is shown with the dotted copper line.
PT-FI accounts for approximately 30% of total Freeport emissions and 
approximately 50% of the company’s total direct Scope 1 emissions.
During 2020, 
PT-FI fully transitioned from open-pit operations to underground operations.
In addition, PT-FI plans to evaluate other alternative energy options and 
implement a number of energy efficiency projects.
Contribution
In early 2021, we enhanced our climate team by hiring experts to support 
work on our life cycle assessments (LCA) in order to provide customers with 
carbon footprint data on our products.
We now are updating our LCA models 
in concert with the International Copper Association’s (ICA) initiative to 
update the global cathode average LCA.
In addition, we are participating in the ICA Decarbonization Roadmap project to 
develop a footprint methodology for copper and are working with the London 
Metals Exchange to include these data in their forthcoming Digital Passport 
platform.
INSUFFICIENT
CLIMATE
ACTION
-2.5ºC Scenario
(IPCC RCP4.5)
Uncoordinated 
response that is 
insufficient to 
meet Paris 
Agreement goals.
NO
CLIMATE
ACTION
-4ºC Scenario
(IPCC RCP8.5)
GHG emissions 
continue increasing 
with no change to 
policies, leading to 
significant physical risk.
This 
includes shifting our water supplies to more sustainable sources, minimizing 
negative impacts from our operations on water quality and availability in a 
local catchment, and supporting the development of access to previously 
unknown, unavailable or undeveloped water resources.
We recognize the importance of working 
collaboratively with our stakeholders to secure access to water in a socially 
and environmentally responsible manner, and we are dedicated to improving 
our water programs over time.
In 2020, we published our 2019 
Water Report to enhance transparency and accountability of our water 
management, which is available on our website.
The number of water risk regions with poor water quality or scarce supply 
is increasing globally.
Climate change is expected to 
exacerbate these trends.
Risk factors include climate conditions, water 
sources, baseline water stress, excess water and access challenges.
This water risk assessment is an iterative process that we aim to update 
periodically.
Over time, we plan to assess and, when appropriate, integrate 
additional critical risks to our water supply risk analysis – such as water quality, 
reputational risks and shared water resource management – and in due course, 
the potential longer-term impacts associated with climate change.
With this information, we can identify opportunities to minimize water 
loss, such as evaporation, maximize recycle and reuse water, and maintain 
compliance with water quality standards.
Our objective to maintain high rates 
of recycled or reused water remained unchanged, and our efficiency 
performance has exceeded 85% in recent years.
Access to these services is 
site specific but can include treated water, drilling boreholes, upgrading or 
building treatment plants and improving water-related infrastructure such 
as pipelines.
The site built a reverse osmosis plant 
at the Ascotán makeup water booster station to produce and supply potable 
drinking water for the community.
The makeup water is pumped out of the 
Ascotán wells field (saline water from the aquifer).
RESILIENCE & PREPARING FOR THE LONG TERM
Some of our operations are in challenging environments where enhancing 
resilience to the impacts of water risks is a critical part of our daily operations.
This includes the health, safety and production risks of heavy rains, arid 
environments or heat-related occupational illness.
Company-wide processes to address risks, including climate, cover the full 
life cycle of our assets – from a pre-project sustainability review process 
to resiliency planning for reclamation and closure.
We recognize that climate change can be a potential amplifier of existing water 
risks.
We will be reporting on the scenario analysis and key recommendations to 
enhance resilience in our upcoming 2020 Climate Report.
The impacts of climate change, such as prolonged 
droughts and wildfires, are having a significant impact on biodiversity 
globally.
Freeport is committed to proactively managing the impacts of our 
mining operations on the environment, including its biodiversity.
OUR APPROACH
Freeport seeks to avoid or minimize the adverse impacts of our operations 
on biodiversity and ecosystem services while promoting opportunities to 
contribute to the conservation and enhancement of biodiversity in the areas 
where we operate.
We 
seek to engage our employees, local communities and other interested 
stakeholders in this work.
›	 Wildlife Habitat Council’s Conservation Certification (WHC) – 
We participate in the certification program, which formally recognizes 
meaningful biodiversity conservation, environmental education 
and community outreach programs.
Eighteen of our operating sites 
and facilities currently are certified through WHC, 14 of which are 
recognized with gold-tier certifications.
Under Peruvian law, guanacos 
are considered a Critically Endangered species, and Cerro Verde 
implements a formal Biodiversity Action Plan to mitigate impacts to 
significant biodiversity resources.
Peruvian and international experts discussed research and 
conservation strategies on guanacos and evaluated Cerro Verde’s 
own guanaco conservation program.
On the final day, IUCN 
experts, scientists from local research institutions, and local and 
national authorities shared research on the guanaco.
Participants concluded 
that guanacos’ sustainability depends on identifying threats and 
establishing a legal framework to protect them.
AMERICAS
We implement a variety of programs and strategies at our operations 
to proactively identify and mitigate biodiversity risks while promoting 
conservation opportunities.
All of our North American sites implement 
Wildlife Protection Plans based on adaptive management principles to 
effectively address biodiversity risks resulting from operational and 
ecological changes at the sites.
In 
addition, the scope of the biodiversity program at El Abra includes the 
Ascotán salt flat area.
These programs are designed to mitigate impacts 
to significant biodiversity resources.
To commemorate Earth 
Day 50, Freeport and WHC promoted at-home activities, such as backyard 
invasive species removal and pollinator garden plantings.
During 
International Bat Week, at our Sierrita, Bisbee, Safford and Morenci 
operations, we held small, socially distanced events to plant agaves, an 
important source of food for nectar-feeding bats.
Due to 
COVID-19 restrictions in 2020, some of these programs were temporarily deferred.
Fish and Wildlife Service to support conservation of federally-listed species such as the 
spikedace and loach minnow fish and southwestern willow flycatcher birds.
Cerro Verde (Peru)
Cerro Verde advanced conservation programs to protect endemic cacti and endangered species, 
including the guanaco and long-nosed bat, and continued monitoring aquatic and avian species in 
the Chili River.
The 
greenhouse employs local indigenous Ascotán community members and can house up to 15,000 
adult plants.
From the 
mangrove forests on the coasts, the land blends into a swamp forest, then 
into the Lowland rainforests, heath forests, montane forests, and finally, 
subalpine and alpine forests in the Highlands.
The PT-FI area is adjacent to the Lorentz National Park, the largest 
protected area in Southeast Asia and the only protected area in the world 
that incorporates continuous intact tracts of ecosystems from alpine to 
tropical marine environments, including extensive Lowland wetlands.
In 
1999, Lorentz National Park was declared a World Heritage Site by the 
United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO).
Conserving and protecting Papua’s biodiversity and ecosystems is a high 
priority for both PT-FI and Freeport.
Through PT-FI’s biodiversity programs, we recognize the important role 
biodiversity plays in sustainability and seek to establish strong partnerships 
with multiple stakeholder groups involved in conservation and natural 
resource management, including governments, NGOs, universities, and 
research organizations and citizens.
Their research results revealed significant differences in 
the species’ biological makeup and behavior when compared 
to other modern canine species.
Biodiversity Education & Outreach Programs
Education and outreach are major focuses of PT-FI’s biodiversity efforts, 
including construction of wildlife sanctuaries and the creation of the Natural 
Succession Discovery Park on a former tailings disposal area to serve as 
an outdoor education classroom.
In 2020, before COVID-19 restrictions, over 1,000 schoolchildren visited 
the Natural Succession Discovery Park and 100 volunteers supported PT-FI 
planting mangroves in the estuary.
Research & Monitoring
PT-FI conducts extensive research and monitoring in area ecosystems 
ranging from approximately 4,000 meters above sea level to coastal and 
marine areas.
Routine flora and fauna monitoring is conducted through 
collaboration with consultants, research organizations and universities.
Countering illegal wildlife trade is a priority for Papua’s natural resource 
agencies and part of PT-FI’s commitment to biodiversity conservation.
PT-FI cooperates with the Indonesia Animal Rescue Center, Papua Regional 
Police, Forest Protection and Nature Conservation, Forest Rangers, Forestry 
Department, Lorentz National Park Center, and Wasur National Park Center 
to repatriate protected animals to their habitats.
In 2020, we supported and 
facilitated the translocation of Papuan endemic birds from North Sumatra 
back into Papua.
PT-FI's biodiversity program 
includes a significant focus on 
education and outreach.
Members of the PT-FI environmental monitoring team survey mangrove growth 
in the tailings deposition area in Indonesia (photo captured pre-COVID-19).
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  72
Tailings Stewardship
WHY IT MATTERS
The health and safety of our workforce, host communities and the environment are fundamental to Freeport’s extensive 
tailings management programs.
Tailings are the finely ground natural rock particles or by-products that remain after the 
economically valuable minerals have been processed and extracted from the mined ore.
Typically, our tailings comprise 
a slurry of finely ground natural rock particles, which are transported from processing facilities to management and 
storage facilities.
OUR APPROACH
Freeport has comprehensive measures in place to ensure our facilities are designed, built, operated and monitored to 
minimize risk to employees, neighboring host communities and the environment.
Through our membership in ICMM, Freeport played an active leadership role and provided 
constructive input in the development of the Tailings Standard.
Freeport currently is advancing internal plans to meet 
this commitment.
To materially reduce the likelihood of failures and 
unplanned discharges, we employ substantial engineering expertise, 
technological monitoring (including remote sensing), and local and 
corporate management oversight to validate that these facilities are 
designed, built, operated and monitored to minimize risk to employees, 
neighboring host communities and the environment.
›	 Site Tailings Management, Engineers and Operations – 
Implements the program and regularly monitors, identifies and 
addresses potential risks.
For closed and inactive sites, we have a similar oversight structure 
that reports through the Vice President and Chief Sustainability Officer and 
includes the same roles for site-level engineers, EoRs, TSTs and 
TRB structures.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  74
Performance
In a typical year, our EoRs and site engineers conduct in-person inspections 
of our TSFs multiple times, our TSTs visit all active sites and select inactive 
or closed sites, and our TRBs visit select sites as part of their quadrennial 
review schedule.
This ongoing review and inspection process results in 
recommended actions, which we track until implemented.
These data 
(generally optical and radar) combined with powerful geospatial software 
made it possible to quickly develop web-based and mobile computing 
applications, providing information and situational awareness to our 
engineers and operators despite reduced time in the field.
Tailings facility at our Morenci 
operations in Arizona.
INDONESIA
PT-FI operates a controlled riverine tailings management system 
implemented based on methods approved and permitted by the Government 
of Indonesia.
Quantities of finer 
tailings and other sediments deposit in the estuary and the sea to the south.
It has been in service for more than 
20 years and has performed safely and in line with initial design plans.
›	 Site Tailings Management, Engineers and Operations – 
Implements the program and regularly monitors, identifies 
and addresses potential risks associated with the ModADA and 
coastal zone areas.
PT-FI expects to spend approximately 
$85 million annually to manage and 
monitor the controlled system in 
coming years.
The public 
announcement and initial public consultations were safely completed in 
mid-2020 with the nearby Indigenous Amungme and Komoro villages in line 
with COVID-19 protocols.
The consultations aimed to educate them about 
the AMDAL process and establish their community representatives for the 
AMDAL Review Committee, which will meet in 2021.
Due in part to 
delays related to COVID-19 restrictions, these studies were not completed in 
2020 and are now expected to be finalized in 2021.
During 2020, PT-FI continued to advance work on a human health risk 
assessment to evaluate the potential impacts of tailings and mining waste in 
the Highlands, Lowlands and estuary areas.
The study is expected to be 
completed in 2021 and we plan to provide a summary of the results.
Freshly deposited 
tailings sediments
After 2-3 years: 
shrubs & ferns
After 10 years: 
young forest
After 20-30 years: 
mature forest
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  76
NATURALLY OCCURRING RE-VEGETATION 
OF TAILINGS DEPOSITION AREA
PT-FI ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING PROGRAM  
PT-FI maintains an extensive environmental management and monitoring 
program to assess the potential current and future environmental impacts 
from its controlled riverine tailings system.
PT-FI expects to spend 
approximately $85 million annually to manage and monitor the controlled 
system in coming years.
A multi-disciplinary, multi-department team routinely measures surface and 
groundwater quality, air quality, and biological, hydrological, sediment, and 
meteorological characteristics of the entire operations area.
TEL is registered with the Ministry of Environment and Forestry as a 
Referenced Environmental Laboratory.
Impacts of the tailings system, including increases in sedimentation, 
were predicted in numerous studies and are consistent with the design 
and operation.
A multi-disciplinary, multi-department 
team routinely measures surface and 
groundwater quality, air quality, and 
biological, hydrological, sediment, and 
meteorological characteristics of the 
entire operations area.
Responsible management of all these 
materials is critical to complying with environmental regulations, maintaining 
community and environmental health, and social acceptance of our operations.
The 
volume of mining and processing wastes varies depending on site operating 
plans.
These materials are typically managed in designated, engineered 
stockpiles or impoundments as discussed in more detail in the prior Tailings 
Stewardship section.
We 
evaluate our hazardous waste streams, and when possible, substitute 
materials with lower toxicity into our processes.
The team is responsible for advancing our technical expertise and 
developing leadership skills through multi-site collaboration.
Our experts 
provide guidance to support global consistency in our waste management 
programs and the company’s Environmental Policy.
Overburden stockpile at Morenci operations in Arizona.
We generated 259 million metric tons of tailings, 349 million metric tons of 
waste rock and overburden and 629 thousand metric tons of slag in 2020.
Coal Ash, a hazardous 
waste generated at PT-FI’s power plant in Indonesia, is fully reutilized 
to make concrete for site construction projects.
Freeport understands that effectively reclaiming disturbed land and 
responsibly closing our mine sites is critical to maintaining the trust of our 
local communities, governments and other interested stakeholders.
OUR APPROACH
Freeport’s reclamation and mine closure planning processes are integral 
to our site planning and ongoing operations.
At each of our operations, we have mine closure and reclamation plans 
with site-specific environmental measures designed to minimize long-term 
impacts, promote ecosystem re-establishment and protect the watersheds 
where we operate.
To support future anticipated closure and reclamation 
costs, each operating mine site has asset retirement obligations that are 
estimated and accounted for in accordance with GAAP and are audited by 
an independent accounting firm.
EXCELLENCE IN RECLAMATION IN COLORADO 
In recent years, our molybdenum operations in Colorado have been 
recognized multiple times by the Colorado Mining Association for 
their practices in reclamation and environmental stewardship.
The 
benefits from these treatments will result in increased tree vigor and 
health, variable wildlife habitat and reduced potential for wildfire.
At our Climax mine, we embarked on a project to restore wetlands in Lake 
Irwin, an area heavily disturbed by previous mine-related activity.
