 9
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
OUR
APPROACH 
FCX is a leading responsible copper producer — supplying 9% of the world’s 
mined copper.
As global decarbonization accelerates, demand for copper is 
expected to increase.
FCX is committed to meeting growing demand through 
our sustainability strategy — Accelerate the Future, Responsibly.
Accelerate the Future, Responsibly aligns with our core values and 
supports our company culture, helping to cultivate an ethical and engaged 
workforce capable of innovating the future of mining and leading our 
company and industry into a more sustainable and responsible era of mining.
•	 The challenges of tomorrow demand innovation.
We embrace this fully.
•	 Rising ESG expectations are an opportunity to create greater 
value.
•	 Resilience and adaptability are essential characteristics and 
priorities for any organization striving to achieve enduring ESG 
progress.
•	 Transparency and accountability are crucial to building and 
maintaining trust.
We are committed to openly engaging with and 
listening to our stakeholders.
We 
strive to embed a holistic ESG approach into decision-making by leveraging our internal culture and 
regulatory and technical systems and expertise.
•	 Thriving Environments: Mining impacts the natural environment.
We work to conduct our 
operations with minimal adverse impacts on the environment, and we support the protection of 
ecosystems through responsible environmental stewardship.
This commitment is embedded in our 
management systems and our approach to continuous improvement.
•	 Operational Excellence: Set the standard for responsible copper 
and molybdenum production.
•	 Collaborative Partnerships: Earn and maintain trust with communities 
and stakeholders.
We proactively and collaboratively engage our host 
communities, including Indigenous Peoples, to define and build a 
common vision for creating shared value.
•	 Responsible Value Chains: Responsibly deliver our products to 
the global economy.
Accelerate 
the Future, 
Responsibly
OUR VALUES
Our culture is the bedrock of FCX's sustainability strategy, aligning our 
core company values to our work.
Our core values direct the decisions we 
make as a company and as individual employees.
•	 Respect
We treat each other and our stakeholders with respect.
We value the 
diversity, ideas, perspectives and experiences of our employees and 
our stakeholders.
We collaborate to create and implement 
innovative ideas and to develop solutions to issues and concerns.
•	 Commitment
We are committed to contributing to the long-term sustainability 
of the environment and communities where we work.
We hold 
ourselves accountable for our environmental and social performance.
13
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
AMBITIONS AND PERFORMANCE TARGETS
In alignment with our sustainability strategy and informed by our materiality assessment and ongoing stakeholder engagement, we have identified our key focus 
areas and established clear ambitions and performance targets for each area, which are outlined in the tables below.
Ambition statements were not developed for compliance 
obligations, which continue to be critically important to our business.
Annual community investment target determined by 1% of the average of the previous 3 years’ annual mining operations revenues.
Our 2022 performance rating pertains to FCX's implementation progress on the Tailings Management in alignment with the ICMM compliant timelines.
For our Copper Mark and ICMM performance expectation evaluations at each 
site, we rate ourselves as "Partially Meets" until the site has fully conformed to the Tailings Standard, when it will be rated as "Fully Meets".
Ambition statements were not developed for compliance 
obligations, which continue to be critically important to our business.
Significant environmental events are defined as those with a 
rating of 3 or higher on the consequence scale.
We are proud to play a leading role in setting the industry 
benchmark for responsible copper production by collaborating with stakeholders to innovate and drive change.
Defining and implementing responsible production at FCX is an iterative process with continuous improvement 
at its core.
We then integrate these commitments, policies and practices into our risk register process, which drives 
our actions.
The graphic below depicts this process.
VALIDATION
GOVERNANCE
POLICIES 
& PRACTICES
STAKEHOLDER 
ENGAGEMENT
VOLUNTARY 
COMMITMENTS
RISK REGISTER
ACTIONS
MEASURE 
& REPORT
Geologist at our Safford operation, Arizona.
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
 21
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
THE COPPER MARK 
The Copper Mark is a comprehensive assurance framework that promotes responsible production practices.
The Copper Mark is now a separate entity from ICA and governed by an independent board, which includes 
NGO participation and a multi-stakeholder advisory council.
FCX has achieved the Copper Mark at all 12 of its copper producing sites globally, including most recently at PT-FI in February 
2023.
Learn more about the Copper Mark on our website and view our site-level assessment reports at coppermark.org.
COPPER MARK 
STATUS BY SITE
AWARDED
Atlantic Copper smelter & refinery (Spain)
Bagdad mine (AZ)
Cerro Verde mine (Peru)
Chino mine (NM)
El Abra mine (Chile)
El Paso refinery & rod mill (TX)*
Miami smelter, mine & rod mill (AZ)
Morenci mine (AZ)
PT-FI mine (Indonesia) 
Safford mine (AZ)
Sierrita mine (AZ)
Tyrone mine (NM)
COPPER MARK CRITERIA CATEGORIES:
GOVERNANCE
LABOR RIGHTS
ENVIRONMENT
COMMUNITY
HUMAN RIGHTS
1 Legal Compliance
5 Child Labor
14 Environmental Risk 
Management
23 Community Health & 
Safety
26 Human Rights
2 Business Integrity
6 Forced Labor
15 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) 
Emissions
24 Community Development
27 Security & Human Rights
3 Stakeholder Engagement
7 Freedom of Association 
& Collective Bargaining
16 Energy Consumption
25 Artisanal & Small-scale 
Mining
28 Indigenous Peoples' 
Rights
4 Business Relationships
8 Discrimination
17 Freshwater Management 
& Conservation
29 Land Acquisition & 
Resettlement
9 Gender Equality
18 Waste Management
30 Cultural Heritage
10 Working Hours
19 Tailings Management
31 Due Diligence in Mineral 
Supply Chains
11 Remuneration
20 Pollution
32 Transparency & 
Disclosure
12 Occupational Health
21 Biodiversity & Protected 
Areas
13 Employee Grievance 
Mechanism
22 Mine Closure & 
Reclamation
MOLYBDENUM MARK 
STATUS BY SITE
AWARDED
Bagdad mine (AZ)**
Cerro Verde mine (Peru)**
Climax mine (CO)
Henderson mine (CO)
Morenci mine (AZ)**
Sierrita mine (AZ)**
LETTER OF COMMITMENT
Fort Madison (IA)
Rotterdam (Netherlands)
Stowmarket (United Kingdom)
*El Paso has been awarded the Nickel Mark 
in addition to the Copper Mark 
**Indicates sites that produce molybdenum 
as a by-product
Note: Status is as of April 20, 2023
 22
ICMM PERFORMANCE EXPECTATIONS 
ICMM is an organization dedicated to a safe, fair 
and sustainable mining and metals industry.
As a 
founding member, FCX has been a leader for over 
20 years, and FCX’s Chairman and CEO served as Chair of ICMM from 
2008-2011 and 2020-2022.
ICMM member companies are required to 
comply with its 39 performance expectations and its 10 Mining Principles 
for sustainable development.
All risks require annual review, and detailed action plans are 
prepared for those rated as actionable.
Once the 
risks and opportunities are prioritized, action plans are developed.
The risk 
register and these plans are the foundation of internal and external assurance 
processes at both the corporate level and operating sites.
The risks included in the risk register are mapped to our external commitments, 
including all 39 ICMM performance expectations and the Copper Mark’s 
32 ESG requirements.
Our risk register assists our teams to identify and 
prioritize the most significant risks to our business and our stakeholders.
The ERM management committee is responsible for providing input and 
oversight on the ERM program, which seeks to link our global operations and 
business functions to (1) identify enterprise risks and opportunities, (2) analyze 
and prioritize risks, (3) review risk control environments, including through 
internal audit, and determine additional management actions where warranted, 
and (4) monitor and report progress.
Key ESG-related risks are included in the 
ERM program.
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
INTEGRATING RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTION INTO GROWTH PROJECTS 
As the world transitions to a lower-carbon economy, demand for copper 
is expected to increase.
We seek to support this increased global demand, 
responsibly.
We employ a variety of baselining and risk management tools 
to identify and evaluate the potential sustainability-related impacts of our 
operations.
As part of the internal risk review process, the Project Development 
Sustainability Review considers sustainability issues during the evaluation, 
and implementation of, potential expansion and development projects.
Key focus areas identified at different project stages 
have included: access to water, energy and materials, potential impacts 
to hydrology, air quality, biodiversity, human rights, community receptivity, 
economic impacts, and land acquisition and resettlement.
We applied this process during the design phase of our Manyar smelter 
project and precious metals refinery in Indonesia and are making regular 
updates during the construction phase.
As global decarbonization 
accelerates, demand for 
copper is expected to increase.
23
 24
In 2022, we committed to formal collaboration 
with Caterpillar’s Early Learner program and 
Komatsu’s GHG Alliance, both of which are 
focused on the development and advancement 
of zero-emissions mining trucks and supporting 
technologies and infrastructure.
Heavy duty 
truck shop at our Sierrita operation, Arizona.
FCX has designed and implemented rigorous policies and processes that 
drive broad engagement with and strong accountability from company 
leadership on our ESG commitments.
These policies and processes support 
our efforts to embed sustainability into company practices and integrate ESG 
into everyday decision making.
Our governance structures support our focus on transparency, which we 
recognize is essential to building — and maintaining — enduring trust with 
stakeholders.
Accountability on ESG extends to the highest levels of the company, including 
to our Chairman and CEO, with active oversight from our Board.
These expectations embody the company’s commitment to ethical and legal 
conduct in all business practices and activities.
Through our governance structures, we work to earn the respect, trust and 
confidence of our stakeholders by establishing and living up to the highest 
standards of responsible performance.
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
 26
GOVERNANCE
WHY IT MATTERS 
Effective governance aligns a company’s purpose, policies and practices to inform robust decision making.
OUR APPROACH 
Sustainability is embedded in FCX's values and business strategy.
Governance and oversight of sustainability 
ultimately resides with the Board, with day-to-day oversight by the executive leadership and site-level 
management teams.
We have the structure 
and processes in place to facilitate effective decision making and advance our stakeholders’ long-term interests.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
The Board oversees and guides the company’s business strategy and monitors the development and management 
of risks that impact the company’s strategic goals, including sustainability-related risks.
Each of these committees is composed entirely of independent directors 
and regularly reports to the full Board.
2022 KEY ESG TOPICS 
Board Meetings 
•	 Workforce health and safety 
• 	 ESG shareholder engagement 
feedback and ESG update 
• 	 Workforce inclusion and diversity update
• 	 Annual adoption of UK Modern 
Slavery Act Statement 
Corporate Responsibility 
Committee Meetings
•	 Workforce health and safety 
•	 Climate strategy and performance update
•	 Human rights program, including 
progress on human rights impact 
assessments (HRIAs) and annual 
adoption of UK Modern Slavery 
Act Statement 
•	 Tailings management, including progress 
implementing the Global Industry 
Standard on Tailings Management in 
the Americas
•	 Update on PT-FI’s human health 
assessment
•	 Water strategy and resilience update
•	 Social performance and charitable 
contributions 
•	 Political spending review
•	 Responsible sourcing of minerals 
program update 
Compensation Committee Meetings 
•	 Workforce health and safety
•	 Workforce recruitment, retention 
and development update
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
 27
BOARD OVERSIGHT OF ESG 
The CRC, on behalf of the Board, oversees the company’s environmental 
and social policies and implementation programs and related risks.
The 
CRC reviews the effectiveness of the company's strategies, programs, 
and policy implementation with respect to health and safety, responsible 
production frameworks, climate, tailings management and stewardship, water 
stewardship, biodiversity and land management, waste management, human 
rights, stakeholder relations, social performance and Indigenous Peoples, 
responsible sourcing, and political activity and spending practices.
Additionally, each of the Audit, Governance and Compensation Committees 
oversee key ESG matters.
The Audit Committee oversees our global compliance 
program and corporate compliance procedures and our information technology 
and cybersecurity processes and procedures.
The 
Governance Committee maintains our Corporate Governance Guidelines 
and oversees our corporate governance practices and procedures.
The 
Compensation Committee oversees our human capital management policies, 
programs, practices and strategies, including those relating to workforce 
recruitment, retention and development, pay equity and inclusion and diversity.
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP
SITE GENERAL MANAGERS
FUNCTIONAL DEPARTMENT DIRECTORS
SUSTAINABILITY LEADERSHIP TEAM
GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY NETWORK
Business Unit 
Presidents
Senior Leadership 
Functional Departments
Corporate 
Responsibility
Committee 
Governance 
Committee
Audit
 Committee
Compensation 
Committee
OPERATIONS
CORPORATE
Effective governance 
aligns a company’s 
purpose, policies and 
practices to inform robust 
decision making.
28
EXECUTIVE SUSTAINABILITY LEADERSHIP 
Our Chairman and CEO has ultimate responsibility for the company’s 
sustainability performance, with active oversight from the Board.
In 
addition, members of the SLT regularly report to the relevant Board committees 
on key ESG matters and periodically report to the full Board.
In 2022, ESG metrics collectively accounted for 25% of the AIP 
(15% safety and 10% sustainability), with the sustainability metric including 
the Copper Mark, climate, human rights, tailings management and workforce 
inclusion and diversity priorities.
37+38+15+10+J
2
5
%
 E
S
G
37.5% 
Operational
37.5% 
Financial
10% 
Sustainability
15% 
Safety
2022
ANNUAL INCENTIVE
PROGRAM
Our Chairman and CEO has 
responsibility for the company’s 
sustainability performance, with 
active oversight from the Board.
OUR APPROACH 
FCX is guided by its PBC, the cornerstone of our commitment to ethical 
business practices.
View more data in 
the Performance 
Data Section
Team member at El Paso 
rod and refining, Texas.
Descriptions of FCX's key 
policies are provided below, and complete policies are available in local 
languages on the Corporate Governance section of our website.
Anti-Corruption
Establishes FCX's zero tolerance policy for any form of corruption, private- 
or public-sector, and prohibits facilitation payments worldwide.
Outlines 
procedures to comply with the FCPA and other relevant anti-corruption laws 
in all countries where we operate.
Business Partner Code of Conduct 
In 2022, we expanded our Supplier Code of Conduct to a Business Partner 
Code of Conduct.
Based on our PBC, it outlines our expectations for our 
business partners and supports our commitment to only do business with 
business partners, including suppliers and contractors, who meet the 
standards we set for ethical business conduct.
The Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights (VPs) 
are the guidelines for our security programs.
Inclusion & Diversity 
Outlines our commitment to fostering a culture that is safety-focused, 
respectful, inclusive and representative of the communities where we operate.
It applies 
to FCX and its affiliated political action committees.
Responsible Sourcing of Minerals 
Outlines our commitment to producing and sourcing minerals and metals 
responsibly, including respecting human rights; preventing bribery, fraud and 
corruption; and implementing the Organisation for Economic Co-operation 
and Development (OECD) Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Mineral 
Supply Chains in Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas.
Social Performance 
Recognizes the vital role of stakeholder engagement and Free, Prior and 
Informed Consent (FPIC).
Calls for collaboration with communities, including 
indigenous and vulnerable populations, to avoid, minimize, mitigate and 
remedy adverse impacts and pursue opportunities to maximize benefits.
Tailings Management 
Outlines our ongoing commitment to managing tailings responsibly, including 
protecting the health and safety of our workforce, host communities and the 
environment.
The policy affirms our goal of zero fatalities, zero catastrophic 
failures and zero unplanned discharges from any of our tailings facilities 
globally and addresses the implementation of the Global Industry Standard on 
Tailings Management for our tailings storage facilities in the Americas.
FCX has zero tolerance for corruption of any kind.
In addition to our 
employees, we hold our business partners to this same standard.
We do 
not obtain any business advantage through bribery, improper payments, 
kickbacks, or any other illegal means.
Over a decade ago, FCX set out to modernize and grow our compliance 
function.
The program today covers regulatory compliance in areas such as 
anti-corruption, international trade controls, conflicts of interest, discrimination 
and sexual harassment, forced labor and other subjects addressed in our PBC.
The company has a comprehensive anti-corruption infrastructure, designed to 
detect, mitigate, and remediate violations of legal and regulatory requirements.
Our Anti-Corruption Policy and internal guidelines require compliance with the 
FCPA and other applicable laws of the countries and jurisdictions where we 
operate.
In 2022, 100% of selected employees completed 
the online training course.
FCeX is a survey-based software 
platform designed to assess risk in the areas of anti-corruption, international 
trade, human rights and responsible sourcing, and includes a number of 
sustainability-related questions.
FCeX enhances our ability to identify, assess 
and mitigate these compliance risks.
Learn more 
in the Responsible Value Chains section.
To encourage our workforce to 
report potential violations of business conduct, our Compliance Line permits 
anonymous reporting.
Approximately 15% of reports received were 
substantiated.
Reports are documented, reviewed and assigned for investigation, 
as appropriate.
Our global human rights team is engaged for human rights-
related complaints.
View more data in 
the Performance 
Data Section
 32
HUMAN RIGHTS
WHY IT MATTERS 
Human rights are internationally recognized, defined in the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights and codified in international law.
Respect is a core value that guides how we do 
business at FCX.
As such, we aim to promote human rights 
through proactive engagement with host governments and communities and 
by educating stakeholders, including training our employees and contractors.
FCX respects internationally recognized human rights, including the 
rights under the International Bill of Human Rights, and is committed to 
implementing the UNGPs.
Our most recent UK Modern Slavery Act Statement is 
available on our website.
On a broader scale, we participate in multi-industry dialogues on respect for 
human rights ― including BSR’s human rights working group; Sustainability 
50’s executive-level peer-to-peer collaboration and information exchange on 
multiple topics, including human rights and responsible supply chains; ICMM 
working groups; and the VPs.
We do not condone any form of threats, intimidation or violence against 
those who peacefully promote and defend human rights and we expect the 
same from our business partners.
POLICIES & PROGRAMS 
•	 Human Rights Policy – This policy states our commitments to the 
International Bill of Human Rights, the UNGPs and the VPs.
We mandate 
human rights standards through our contracts with business partners.
•	 Responsible Sourcing of Minerals Policy – This policy commits our 
business to identifying and mitigating human rights violations in our supply 
chains of minerals and metals for our downstream processing facilities.
•	 Human Rights Impact Assessments – HRIAs are our primary method of 
conducting human rights due diligence at our active operations.
Our PBC 
and other core policies ― including Anti-Corruption, Social Performance, 
Environmental, Health and Safety, and Inclusion and Diversity ― support 
the application of our Human Rights Policy.
Our cross-functional human rights working group meetings resumed in 2022 
after being paused during the COVID-19 pandemic and will continue to meet 
on a regular basis moving forward.
In late 2022, during an 
internal review of subcontractor records for the project, potential instances of 
underage workers at the smelter project were identified.
FCX and PT-FI strictly 
prohibit child labor as outlined in our Human Rights Policy.
The individuals 
were promptly dismissed from the project and provided compensation.
In addition, in collaboration with PT-FI’s EPC contractor and its subcontractors, 
PT-FI has implemented a Human Rights Ambassador program onsite.
PT-FI 
facilitates the program which includes ambassador representation and support 
from both the EPC contractor and its subcontractors.
To date, there are 35 
ambassadors working onsite helping to educate workers about their human 
rights and how to access available grievance mechanisms.
The ambassadors are trained by PT-FI’s human 
rights team and are invited to monthly coordination meetings.
In addition, 
PT-FI is developing a social and human rights monthly inspection process 
in conjunction with its monthly environmental audits to enable proactive 
identification and resolution of potential human rights issues.
View more data in 
the Performance 
Data Section
Grasberg minerals 
district, Indonesia.
Human rights considerations are currently included in our 
annual PBC training, which all employees undertake.
Training at 
these sites is led by dedicated site-based human rights compliance officers.
In 2022, the project conducted approximately 
9,800 hours of training.
VOLUNTARY PRINCIPLES ON SECURITY & HUMAN RIGHTS 
The VPs serve as guidelines for our security and human rights programs, 
including for interactions with host government police, military personnel 
and private security contractors.
We focus our implementation primarily on 
Indonesia and Peru, which are higher-risk jurisdictions for security and human 
rights matters.
Contracts 
with private security providers include requirements to comply with both our 
Human Rights Policy and the VPs.
We maintain support agreements with 
host governments that detail the working relationships between the company 
and the public security personnel assigned to it.
Dedicated human rights 
compliance officers lead training for security employees, security contractors 
and host government security.
Refer to our annual reports to the Voluntary Principles Plenary on 
our website for more information.
In 2022, PT-FI’s human rights team launched 
a special campaign to inspire local youth about human 
rights and tolerance.
The campaign reached youth groups at 
Maranatha Christian Church in Timika and children at Lembaga 
Pengembangan Anak Terlantar dan Putus Sekolah, a local 
NGO that supports homeless and disadvantaged children.
More than 150 children actively 
participated in the campaign.
We implement and 
refine our approach to human rights through ongoing stakeholder engagement, 
grievance management and the findings from our HRIAs.
These assessments involve direct input from a broad cross-
section of internal and external rights holders, and they support continuous 
improvement of our management systems by testing their effectiveness in 
identifying and addressing potential, actual and perceived human rights risks 
and impacts.
In addition to HRIAs, our responsible sourcing programs require human rights 
due diligence on suppliers of both goods and services, and minerals and 
metals for further processing.
The development of these programs is informed 
by our HRIA findings.
In 2022, we advanced our approach to assessing 
supplier human rights and other sustainability-related risks, which we discuss 
in more detail in our Responsible Value Chains section.
Where the findings identified actual or potential gaps in a management 
system for a particular human rights-related risk, cross-functional teams 
developed action plans.
Where the findings identified actual or potential gaps in a 
management system associated with a particular human rights-related topic, 
cross-functional teams are developing action plans to further investigate, 
prevent and/or remedy human rights risks and impacts.
In 2023, we intend 
to leverage our existing engagement mechanisms to communicate with 
stakeholders on the key findings from the HRIA and plan to involve relevant 
stakeholders in the development of our action plans, where appropriate.
During 2022, we worked with the consultant to develop and 
plan a tailored approach, taking into consideration the unique and complex 
nature of the site.
We are specifically focusing our due diligence on PT-FI's 
business processes and systems, with the aim of improving their ability to 
effectively identify and address human rights risks and impacts.
In 2023, the 
consultant will conduct the stakeholder engagement phase of the assessment 
through internal and external stakeholder interviews.
In addition to HRIAs, our responsible 
sourcing programs require human 
rights due diligence on suppliers of 
both goods and services, and minerals 
and metals.
Electrowinning facility at our 
Morenci operation, Arizona.
37
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
ILLEGAL ARTISANAL MINING
At our Grasberg operations in Indonesia, illegal artisanal miners seek economic 
opportunity by panning for unrecovered gold from our milling operations in our 
controlled riverine tailings system.
Additional 
safety challenges exist as PT-FI’s ongoing levee maintenance and earthworks, 
which are needed to responsibly manage the controlled riverine system, occur 
alongside illegal artisanal miners.
As part of PT-FI’s ongoing 
engagement with the illegal artisanal mining community, PT-FI continued 
to carry out human rights education in 2022, with a focus on the rights of 
children (particularly on preventing child labor) living in the artisanal mining 
camps in our area of work.
A multi-faceted 
approach — including government cooperation, security risk management, 
stakeholder engagement and socioeconomic development for alternative 
livelihoods — is essential.
We work to promote 
awareness of these mechanisms through a variety of means, including through 
posters, company webpages, stakeholder engagement and training.
Globally, human rights and environmental issues 
in supply chains have been receiving increasing scrutiny from consumers, 
NGOs, regulators and stakeholders.
This pressure heightens 
expectations and responsibility for robust due diligence by mineral and metal 
producers globally.
SUPPORTING THE SAFETY OF OUR CONTRACTORS
FCX is dedicated to promoting a positive and supportive safety culture 
for our employees and contractors.
We believe this is critical to the 
sustainability and success of our safety program.
To that end, our supply chain team has initiated a comprehensive 
evaluation of our contractor management program aimed at identifying 
opportunities for improvement and to ensure alignment with long-term 
strategic company objectives.
As part of this evaluation, a contractor 
engagement team was established.
This team includes individuals 
from supply chain, safety, operational improvement, operations and 
business units.
The team requested feedback from onsite contractors and 
employees based in North America to gain their perspective on FCX’s 
culture and how contractors are treated and supported by FCX.
To support 
this effort, in 2022, we extended our previous Supplier Code of Conduct to 
include our business partners, which includes our suppliers, contractors, 
customers and recipients of charitable giving.
Our Business Code of Conduct covers a 
range of ESG areas by aligning it with our Responsible Sourcing of Minerals, 
Social Performance and Human Rights policies.
Our Business Partner Code of Conduct and our compliance screening 
processes represent the foundation of our responsible sourcing program for 
all suppliers globally.
This is a significant undertaking, as it covers more than 
20,000 suppliers that provide a wide variety of goods and services — from small 
catering businesses in remote locations to large multinational corporations that 
produce heavy machinery or minerals and metals.
This survey-based 
software platform has enhanced our ability to identify, assess, and mitigate 
compliance risks in areas of anti-corruption, international trade and human 
rights.
Integration of onsite contractor safety data into the SAP 
Ariba platform will begin in 2023.
BUSINESS 
PARTNER CODE 
OF CONDUCT
MONITORING
DUE DILIGENCE
TRACKING 
PERFORMANCE 

& REPORTING
RISK
ASSESSMENT
PREVENTION/
MITIGATION
SUPPLIER RISK
MANAGEMENT
Our Business Partner Code of Conduct 
and our compliance screening 
processes represent the foundation of 
our responsible sourcing program for 
all suppliers globally.
In 2022, we began implementing it for our 
purchases of secondary copper materials.
In addition to the responsible 
sourcing process outlined above, to implement this policy, we assess our 
incoming metal and mineral supply chains to identify potential “flags” 
associated with what the OECD Guidance defines as Annex II risks — such 
as bribery, corruption, human trafficking, and child or forced labor.
An internal committee 
then reviews these results and takes appropriate action, which can include 
working with a metal supplier to identify and implement an action plan or 
collaborating with a supplier to build the capacity needed to address risks.
Meeting Responsible Sourcing Requirements 
The LME is the primary international exchange for base metals.
In late 2019, 
the LME announced its responsible sourcing requirements for all current 
and future LME-registered brands.
For instance, in partnership with the Small Business Development Center at 
Eastern Arizona College, our Safford and Morenci operations conducted a 
“How to do Business with Freeport-McMoRan” event in late 2022.
We continue to prioritize greater transparency in our local procurement 
spending, with a focus on expanding opportunities for local suppliers, where 
feasible.
We have implemented standard operating procedures and/or plans 
emphasizing local procurement at our North America, PT-FI, Cerro Verde and 
El Abra operations.
In 2022, we continued our engagement with the Mining 
Local Procurement Reporting Mechanism (LPRM), which is an initiative that 
seeks to develop, through disclosures, a set of common standards agreed 
by both host countries and mining companies for what constitutes local 
procurement.
FCX has met the LPRM disclosure requirements which requires 
a disclosure of local procurement spend by site and additional information for 
existing and potential suppliers, which is available on the Suppliers page of 
our website.
We continue to prioritize greater 
transparency in our local 
procurement spending, with a 
focus on expanding opportunities 
for local suppliers.
View more data in 
the Performance 
Data Section
Approximately 71% of our 2022 
procurement spend on services at our 
Safford operation was with local suppliers.
In 2022, 
this included updates of our safety data sheets for our products entering the 
EU market required by recent revisions to those regulations, advancing work 
with our peers at both ICA and IMOA on the scientific profiles of both copper 
and molybdenum as they relate to human and environmental exposure and 
deploying results in regulatory environments to ensure continued market 
access for our products.
In 2022, ICA completed an 
update to its previous global LCA profile for copper concentrate and cathode.
FCX played a key role in this work, providing data from our mining, smelting 
and refining facilities.
Work on this project will continue in 2023.
In 2022, the ICA completed an update 
to its global Life Cycle Assessment 
profile for copper concentrate and 
cathode and FCX played a key role 
in this work, providing data from our 
mining, smelting and refining facilities.
Team member at our El 
Abra operation, Chile.
In addition to a traditional focus on safety, 
we aim to support our employees with expanded mental health care benefits.
In 2022, we participated in an ICMM Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) 
working group to review ICMM’s performance expectations and consider 
broader industry efforts to enhance workforce culture.
In 2022, we continued 
to work in partnership to conduct an in-depth health study at PT-FI during 
the year.
OUR APPROACH 
Safety is a core company value and is foundational to our sustainability approach.
We believe 
that health and safety considerations are integral to, and fundamental for, our operational success and efficiency and 
ultimately to our ability to deliver long-term value to our stakeholders.
We strive to achieve zero workplace fatalities, high-risk incidents, injuries and occupational illnesses by creating a safe 
and healthy workplace.
This includes providing the training, tools and resources needed so our workforce can identify 
risks and consistently apply effective controls.
We partner with occupational medicine experts to implement comprehensive 
medical screening for employees who work with potentially hazardous substances.
Our Safe Production Matters strategy is focused on fatality prevention and continuous improvement through robust 
management systems, safe work behaviors and our safety culture, supported by leaders empowering our teams to 
work safely.
We further seek to prevent fatalities and high-risk incidents by leveraging technology to support safe work 
practices in the field and leveraging analytics to support data-driven decisions made in combination with behavioral 
science principles.
During the year, we continued our work to provide operational leaders with timely and 
transparent information to support and encourage quality safety discussions with employees in the field.
Where appropriate, we seek to collaborate with local public health officials to support 
community-relevant health education and program development activities.
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
 47
Policies & Programs 
•	 Safety and Health Policy — States our commitments, processes and 
management systems to meet our health and safety objectives.
•	 Contractor Health and Safety Manual — Defines the expectations and 
requirements for contractors working at our operations.
Executive management 
receives safety performance reports regularly, including reviews of high-risk, 
potential fatal and fatal incidents, and we present and discuss all fatal incident 
investigations with the CRC and the Board.
In the event of a fatality, 
executive management and the CRC are notified immediately.
The goal of our FRM program is to achieve zero workplace fatalities 
by strengthening preventative measures and raising awareness to these fatal 
risks.
Fundamental to the FRM program is our effort to proactively identify 
potentially fatal risks in the field and apply the controls most critical for their 
avoidance.
In 2022, we began conducting maturity 
assessments to understand the degree to which each site has implemented 
their programs.
In response, we introduced 
subcategories to provide further granularity and relevance.
Our 
frontline supervisors play a vital role in the success of FRM by discussing 
risks with their teams, raising awareness of the critical controls and helping 
employees to eliminate distractions and remain focused.
We 
expect our workforce to stop work immediately if critical controls are missing 
or ineffective, or if work is not being performed safely.
This helps ensure that controls are in place to mitigate high-
risk tasks.
A critical control checklist is available on mobile devices 
to assist supervisors in real time in the field.
In 2022, we enhanced our digital capabilities by rolling out 
Enterprise Work Space (EWS), an evolution of our existing mobile platform that 
adds additional functionality, including offline capabilities and quicker access 
to our FRM questions and safety forms.
Required follow-up includes a review 
of findings with senior management and site senior leadership who oversee 
and are responsible for implementing corrective actions.
We believe these events present the most significant opportunities 
to learn and reduce the potential for future recurrence.
49
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
PERFORMANCE 
Considerable effort has been devoted to identifying hazards in the workplace, 
with the goal of mitigating them before individuals are harmed and analyzing 
events that do occur to identify missing or inadequate controls for the future.
At the highest level, tracking of our company-wide Total Recordable Incident 
Rate (TRIR) indicator captures safety incidents that resulted in the occurrence 
of an injury (fatalities, lost-time incidents, restricted-duty incidents and medical 
treatments).
In 2022, FCX employees and contractors worked 153 million hours 
and had 590 recordable injuries during the year, compared with 131 million 
hours and 455 recordable injuries in 2021.
We are focused on improving our performance in 2023.
In 2022, the percentage of high-risk events, which 
are defined as having the potential to result in permanent disability or fatality, 
remained flat at approximately 7%.
The remaining 93% of incidents in 2022 were classified as low- or medium-risk 
incidents, which include incidents such as fractures, sprains and lacerations.
As a result, we 
are working to enhance our onboarding, training and retention efforts targeting 
these groups.
Our risk register defines "high-risk" events as incidents that have the potential to result in permanent disabilities or fatalities.
TRIR is equivalent to MSHA All-Incidence Rate (AIR).
The 
vehicle operator was not wearing a seatbelt.
Senior leadership at our sites and at the corporate level are actively engaged 
in the corrective action process, including performing periodic verifications 
for long-term sustainability of corrective actions.
In the case of 
a workplace fatality, we assist with funeral arrangements as appropriate.
In addition, senior leadership reviews the evaluation of each incident 
to determine compensation for the family, irrespective of liability and in 
addition to local requirements.
The 
plan guides our operational approach to preparing for, responding to 
and recovering from potential emergencies or crises.
Starting in 2022 and continuing in 2023, our sites are working to update 
their site-specific plans in alignment with the updated crisis management 
guidelines, are performing internal tests of the updated plans and are 
engaging external stakeholders, where applicable.
We plan to begin testing 
our emergency response plans in 2023 with relevant stakeholders and 
perform site-based tailings emergency response simulations beginning with 
our sites that have higher risk TSFs based on consequence classification.
Each of our host communities have different community health 
profiles in terms of maturity of the healthcare system and levels and types of 
background disease.
We seek to understand these conditions and work in 
partnership with our host communities to address regional health problems.
This integrated facility houses Public Health and Human Services, which 
include primary medical care and mental and behavioral health services.
In 
2017, we helped to establish the School Based Health Center in Lake County 
School District (Colorado) and continued our support for this important 
service by helping to fund a full-time behavioral health counselor in 2022.
Notably, for our employees in the U.S., we introduced an enhanced 
employee assistance program to provide more options for personalized 
care and life resources, including expanded mental health care 
benefits.
54
PT-FI’S COMMITMENT TO COMMUNITY HEALTH 
PT-FI recognizes environmental and community health as an operational 
imperative and is dedicated to monitoring, managing and mitigating potential 
environmental and community health impacts from exposure to its tailings 
and other mine waste.
Risk 
assessments are designed to identify potential exposure pathways that should 
be further evaluated with additional data collection and research.
To mitigate the possibility of 
erosion recurrence, PT-FI is continuing to cap the existing overburden stockpile 
with limestone and constructing additional levees and drainage channels 
to move stormwater away from the overburden stockpile.
PT-FI continues to 
actively monitor this matter.
As part of this effort, PT-FI has been 
working with the LHA to further investigate and collect additional data on 
potential impacts relating to human consumption of the identified clam species.
The surveys were wide-reaching and examined areas such as environmental 
health, access to health services, maternal health and nutrition and communicable 
diseases.
The results of the surveys indicated no correlation between constituents in 
PT-FI's tailings management system and measured metals in blood.
The LHA has stated that these interventions require strategic and 
sustained programs to meaningfully improve community health in the region.
Partnering on Community Health 
In response to the results of the health surveys, PT-FI and the LHA have 
agreed to collaborate on longer-term public health challenges, with the local 
government leading the efforts.
•	 Clean Water and Sanitation Facilities: activities will focus on providing 
the needed infrastructure to ensure access to clean water and improved 
sanitation.
•	 Maternal Health: the program will focus on improving nutrition and 
health access for pregnant women.
We believe that PT-FI’s cooperation with the LHA demonstrates the 
importance of public-private partnerships on critical areas such as community 
health.
56
WORKFORCE
WHY IT MATTERS 
An inclusive and diverse workforce with a broad range of experience, 
knowledge, background, culture and heritage drives innovation, enhances 
operational performance and improves relationships with stakeholders.
Mining, by its cyclical nature, presents challenges to cultivating and 
maintaining a skilled, stable and diverse workforce.
Our ability to successfully recruit, retain, develop and advance 
talented employees is paramount.
We seek to design our programs and initiatives with standardized processes and 
priorities while being adaptable to site specific or situational circumstances.
These global policies 
are publicly available on our website and translated into the local languages of 
the regions where we operate.
We fully expect our workforce to understand and 
comply with our trainings, policies, procedures, local cultures and laws.
PERFORMANCE 
At the end of 2022, FCX’s global workforce totaled approximately 25,600 
employees and 48,900 contractors.
Beginning in 2021 and during 
2022, we experienced an increasingly competitive labor market and labor 
shortages at our North America operations.
As a result of this labor shortage, 
we hired more contract workers in 2022.
View more data in 
the Performance 
Data Section
Team member at our Grasberg 
minerals district, Indonesia.
We are committed to prohibiting forced, compulsory and 
child labor and human trafficking.
We do not tolerate any form of harassment 
or discrimination against individuals based on race, color, sex, religion, 
national origin, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, disability, 
age, veteran’s status or any other characteristic protected by applicable law.
Our global employee assistance programs provide support and a confidential 
reporting mechanism to employees who believe they have experienced 
harassment, bullying or discrimination in the workplace.
Approximately 30% of our global employee population 
is covered by collective labor agreements (CLAs).
Our North America workforce is not represented by unions.
The Guiding Principles agreement is periodically updated with 
input from employees and includes an open-door policy and a problem-
solving procedure that have been established to provide a fair and impartial 
resolution of concerns about employment.
Our global workforce, including 
North America, is encouraged to report grievance-related information to their 
supervisor, local Human Resources representative, or our global compliance 
department as described in the Business Conduct & Policies section.
We recognize that prolonged strikes and other work stoppages can adversely 
affect our business, our workforce and regional stakeholders.
As such, we 
seek to openly engage with our employees directly, and where applicable, our 
union leadership to negotiate and uphold labor agreements.
In 2022, there 
were no strikes or lockouts at any of our operations.
48+25+23+4+J
GLOBAL WORKFORCE
(As of December 31, 2022)
North America	
48%
South America	
25% 
Indonesia	
23%
Europe/Other	
4%
EMPLOYEES
(Approximately 25,600) 48+34+13+5+J
Indonesia	
48%
North America	
34%
South America	
13%
Europe/Other	
5%
CONTRACTORS
(Approximately 48,900)
80%
60%
40%
20%
0%
EMPLOYEES UNDER COLLECTIVE 
LABOR AGREEMENTS IN 2022
47+60+67+0
30% FCX 
Global Average
Indonesia
Europe/Other
South America
North America1 
 FCX Global
1.
Attracting and 
retaining employees with the technical expertise required to achieve our 
strategic objectives and competing for skilled labor in the current environment 
are significant challenges.
The 
aim of this process was to focus and prioritize the core competencies needed 
for our leaders to be successful today and to consider and integrate the 
skills we believe will be required for successful leadership in the future.
These include 
our “Welcome to Supervision” classes in North America and our “Coaching for 
Success” webinars available at our sites in North America and Indonesia.
In 
2023, we plan to expand the knowledge and skills covered in these courses, 
and we are working to offer these programs in the other regions where we 
operate.
Employee engagement and feedback are core components of our talent 
management program.
60
INCLUSION & DIVERSITY 
As a global organization operating in diverse parts of the world, we recognize 
the importance of inclusion and diversity as a company priority.
INDUSTRY COLLABORATION ON DIVERSITY, 
EQUITY AND INCLUSION PRIORITIES
FCX participated in an ICMM Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) working 
group during 2022, to review ICMM’s performance expectations as part 
of a broader industry effort on workforce culture.
49+51+J
NORTH
AMERICA
97+3+J
INDONESIA 23+64+13+J
GLOBAL
 BY AGE
99+1+J
GLOBAL 
BY NATIONALITY
49% Racially or 
Ethnically Diverse
97% Indonesian 
Nationals
99% In-Country 
Nationals
23% 
Over 50
13% 
Under 30
41% Indigenous 
Papuan
1%
Expatriates
64% Between
30-50
GLOBAL EMPLOYEES (as of December 31, 2022)
Note: Figures exclude contractors
View more data in 
the Performance 
Data Section
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
 61
Diversity & Local Hiring 
FCX is committed to fostering a culture that is inclusive and representative 
of the communities where we operate.
The vast majority of our employees 
are from the countries where we operate.
Local employment directly contributes to the economic 
and social development of surrounding communities.
We aspire for the diversity of our global workforce to 
reflect the diversity of the communities where we operate.
In Indonesia, 97% of our employee base is Indonesian, including 41% 
at PT-FI who are Indigenous Papuan.
We retain expatriate expertise for managerial and technical roles when we 
determine it is not available in local communities.
These colleges and universities have more 
than 10 million active students, including 5 million women, and 2.4 million 
Black or African American and Hispanic candidates.
FCX continues to leverage recruitment tools to attract 
veterans, including a digital tool on our Careers page that helps veterans 
find jobs at FCX that align with their skills and capabilities.
Our gender representation goal in 2022 remained 15% women in our total 
global employee base.
In 2022, we continued to make progress against this 
target.
At year-end, women represented 14.2% of our global employees, up 
from 13.4% in 2021.
The percentage of women in executive management 
roles increased slightly in 2022 versus 2021.
FCX’s global full-time employee turnover rate was 9%, with 
women leaving our workforce at a slightly higher rate than men.
Note: Employee figures exclude contractors and are as of year-end.
20%
15%
10%
5%
095+68+30+36+83
2022 WOMEN EMPLOYED BY FCX LOCATION (%)
North America
Chile
Peru
Indonesia
Europe/Other
14% FCX Global Average
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
 63
FAIR & EQUAL REMUNERATION PRACTICES 
We are committed to respecting the rights of our workforce, including paying 
fair and equal wages.
Our approach to compensation and benefits is market-
based, competitive and informed by annual benchmarking and analysis.
Our initial review was conducted in 
2021 and included a robust statistical analysis and detailed compensation 
reviews of our global employee base.
In 2022, we worked with Mercer to 
conduct an updated analysis of base pay, which showed a gender pay equity 
gap ratio of more than 0.995 (female employee) to 1 (male employee).
In the U.S., the 2022 race and ethnicity pay analysis 
showed a pay ratio of more than 0.995 (Hispanic employee) to 1 (white 
employee).
In 2022, we continued working with BSR, a global sustainability nonprofit, on 
a living wage assessment for both full-time and part-time employees.
BSR’s living wage 
benchmark rates exceed the minimum wages in all 42 locations.
Compensation 
for all applicable employees was reviewed and meets BSR's living wage 
benchmarks for each respective location.
In 2022, we completed a pilot living 
wage assessment of on-site contractors, with input and guidance from BSR, 
with a view to extending our living wage commitment to our on-site contractors 
in the future.
Moving forward, and in recognition of evolving pay landscapes, we plan to 
conduct evaluations of our pay equity practices and living wage assessments 
on a periodic basis and integrate key learnings into our compensation 
processes.
64
We work in partnership with our host communities and 
Indigenous Peoples to earn and maintain their trust and to 
contribute to long-term shared value and resilience.
COMMUNITIES & INDIGENOUS PEOPLES
WHY IT MATTERS 
The relationship between a mining company and its neighboring communities is dynamic.
Mining is an 
inherently cyclical business with production levels fluctuating over time.
While copper and molybdenum 
mines typically have long lives, mining resources ultimately are finite.
Increasing automation, technical 
innovation and shifts in the global economy are changing mining processes and labor requirements.
This 
ongoing collaboration is critical to maintaining a social license to operate.
OUR APPROACH 
FCX strives to work in partnership with our host communities and Indigenous Peoples to earn and 
maintain their trust and deliver shared value.
Proactive, ongoing engagements and constructive dialogue are foundational to our approach.
This is how 
we understand actual, potential and perceived impacts on our host communities, build trust, and mutually 
identify the most relevant social investments and development priorities to address our impacts and 
support enhanced resilience.
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
 65
Policies & Programs 
•	 Social Performance Policy – This policy outlines our commitment to 
engage and collaborate with local communities in an effort to avoid, 
minimize, mitigate and remedy adverse impacts while maximizing 
opportunities to deliver value from our presence.
We engage with stakeholders through Community Partnership Panels in the 
U.S., community engagement dialogue in South America, and partnerships 
with the Indigenous Councils in Indonesia led by Community Liaison 
Officers.
In addition, 
all of our operations frequently engage with stakeholders through situation- or 
topic-specific meetings, presentations, community affairs office hours, and 
other community outreach and engagement efforts.
Through our collaborative 
engagements, we identify relevant community programs and projects, some of 
which are featured in this report.
In 2022, we adopted a company-wide digital system to enhance the tracking 
and documentation of our informal and formal stakeholder engagements 
and reported community grievances.
66
COMMUNITY GRIEVANCE MECHANISM 
To support constructive engagement and resolution of potential issues and 
adverse impacts, we maintain a site-level grievance mechanism where 
community members, including Indigenous Peoples, can register their 
complaints.
Our community grievance mechanism serves as an early warning 
system for FCX by tracking trends and patterns in grievance types so they can 
be addressed in their earliest stages, ideally prior to further escalation.
The community 
grievance officer works with relevant departments to investigate, and where 
appropriate, provide remedy.
In response, 
employees from our Safford operations engaged the San Carlos Apache Tribe’s 
Chief of Police, Transportation Committee, and Law & Order Committee; 
and the Arizona Department of Transportation (ADOT) Southeast District 
Administrator to investigate the issue.
The group determined that the majority 
of incidents occurred during summer and winter school breaks.
In 2022, this STEM programming 
received a $20,000 grant from FCX’s Native American Partnership Fund.
Stakeholder collaboration will continue into 2023 as ADOT seeks federal funding 
to develop a comprehensive safety action plan for this corridor.
Other includes obstruction of view, light disturbance, blight, housing and other grievances not listed above.
We are steadfast in our commitment to acknowledge, respect and engage 
collaboratively with Indigenous Peoples.
We do this by consistently applying our Building Trust approach, which aims 
to foster trust through ongoing engagement, transparency and creating shared 
value.
Our stakeholder engagement program includes formal interactions with 
Indigenous Peoples in Central Papua, Indonesia; Native Americans in the U.S.; 
and the traditional communities of Alto El Loa in Chile.
While their tribal government is located in Oklahoma, some of our operations are located in part of the 
Fort Sill Apache Tribe’s aboriginal homelands.
Our internal Native 
American Affairs team, made up of professionals with diverse tribal heritage and 
experience, provided critical guidance and leadership through this effort, and 
continue to do so on an ongoing basis.
The team’s expertise, knowledge and 
perspective are invaluable to informing our practices.
This approach is driven by dedicated trust-building teams at our operations, 
placing the engagement strategy and execution in close proximity to our 
Indigenous neighbors.
This serves as evidence that 
sustained, intentional and culturally respectful engagement 
can build deeper trust and stronger relationships.
We voluntarily 
and proactively began outreach with the neighboring Indigenous 
communities ahead of the formal tribal consultation process.
We seek to 
support our Indigenous neighbors 
through capacity building and 
educational opportunities.
Our Grasberg operations in Indonesia 
are located where Indigenous Peoples of Central Papua hold customary land 
rights.
This commitment is reflected in our Social Performance Policy 
and Human Rights Policy available on our website.
By the end of 2022, FCX leaders and teams, who have the 
potential to interface with Indigenous communities, received the training.
In Peru, we continued aiding an annual Indigenous Peoples horse pilgrimage 
that passes through our Cerro Verde operations.
Indonesia 
In Indonesia, we are supporting the Indigenous Kamoro in their tradition 
of wood carving.
In cooperation with the Maramowe Weaiku Kamorowe 
Foundation, we are seeking to increase the number of young Kamoro carvers 
to promote their art and culture.
Through 2022, PT-FI has supported 544 Kamoro carvers from 33 villages.
The ritual culminated in September 2022, 
and PT-FI’s senior leadership was invited to attend.
CULTURAL HERITAGE 
Cultural heritage can be defined as Indigenous Peoples’ or any other 
population’s unique assets and resources, including, but not limited to 
tangible assets such as places, buildings, and artifacts, or intangible 
assets such as practices, customs, religious/spiritual sites and shrines.
We recognize that respecting and supporting the cultural heritage of 
our host communities, including our Indigenous neighbors, is critical to 
our ongoing social license to operate.
We acknowledge that the nature and location of our mining and processing 
activities means we have the potential to impact cultural heritage.
This 
promise is connected to our overarching commitments — such as Human 
Rights — and it manifests in the choices we make when our operations 
can adversely impact the culture of our communities and neighbors.
1
2
3
 72
 72
Americas 
•	 Through our engagement and dialogue with Native American Nation 
leaders, we understand that a certificate or degree is a high priority for 
tribal members.
•	 At El Abra, we created a School Fund, which has supported teachers and 
students in Alto El Loa for 12 years.
In 2022, we extended the program 
into more communities in the Antofagasta Region, strengthening our 
commitment and widening the impact on the quality of education.
In 1996, PT-FI established a 
social investment fund with the aim of contributing to social and economic 
development in the Mimika Regency.
In 2022, the program had 1,222 active scholarship recipients and 
supported 1,530 students in the boarding school program.
1
 73
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
Americas 
•	 In 2021 and 2022, the Freeport-McMoRan Foundation provided operating 
support to the Arizona Economic Recovery Center, which was launched 
to provide technical assistance and training in rural Arizona communities, 
including tribes and Indigenous Peoples to aid them in submitting higher 
quality competitive applications for federal, state and foundation grant 
funding.
Through multi-agency collaboration, 
the effort has mobilized an array of services and support, such as 
technical assistance, matched savings accounts, micro-grants and 
access to other capital to empower entrepreneurs in Ajo, Arizona (where 
FCX has discontinued operations).
•	 At Cerro Verde, we support the Center for Entrepreneurship and Business 
Development (EMPRENDE) to provide no-cost business management 
consulting to entrepreneurs in the site’s direct influence area.
EMPRENDE 
has provided more than 52,800 hours of consulting services to more than 
3,900 entrepreneurs.
This support helped spur the creation of more than 1,500 
employment opportunities in the Mimika Regency.
Additionally, PT-FI and YPMAK support 
the agriculture and food security project, which aims to educate local 
communities on plant cultivation of sago, coffee and horticulture produce 
such as vegetables and fruits.
Our work includes supporting the 
development and growth of small businesses, promoting local sourcing opportunities, enhancing basic infrastructure 
such as affordable housing, aiding local food security, and supporting widespread access to health and wellness services.
This community-led process helps stakeholders 
identify, understand and pre-emptively mitigate potential risks specific 
to their local context with special attention on mine closures and climate 
change.
The plans identify concrete strategies that the communities 
can deploy to combat possible scenarios that address challenges and 
opportunities.
We expect to initiate 
this work at additional U.S. sites in 2023.
Additionally, in collaboration with the Indigenous 
Councils and the local university, we entered into an agreement to 
monitor and evaluate PT-FI’s social investment in the Kamoro and 
Amungme communities.
74
Cerro Verde operation supports 
local water infrastructure that 
benefits agriculture in the region.
We believe inclusive and diverse communities that 
enable full and equal participation of women are stronger, more stable and 
resilient over the long term.
FCX partners with WEConnect International and Vital Voices to support 
women's empowerment and leadership.
As both a member of, and long-
standing partner with, WEConnect International, FCX has helped enable 
women business owners compete for a greater share of private sector 
sourcing contracts, including identifying opportunities for women to 
participate in our own supply chain.
76
ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTIONS
WHY IT MATTERS
Mining operations can contribute to national, regional and local development 
through employment opportunities, voluntary investments in communities 
and through taxes, royalties and other financial obligations in jurisdictions 
where the operations are located.
ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTIONS & CASH PAYMENTS TO GOVERNMENTS 
In 2022, FCX’s direct economic contributions totaled $19.0 billion, which 
includes $10.8 billion in payments to suppliers; $2.6 billion in employee wages 
and benefits; $2.3 billion in payments to providers of capital; $3.2 billion 
in taxes, royalties and other payments to governments; and $177 million in 
voluntary community investments.
FCX’s global tax strategy seeks to balance the economic considerations of 
our host governments and stakeholders with our business objectives.
In 
jurisdictions where we conduct business, we advocate for the development 
and implementation of fair and predictable tax laws on issues that are 
important to our business and the industry.
The Extractive Industries 
Transparency Initiative (EITI) is a global standard to promote transparent 
and accountable management of natural resources.
We maintain significant mining 
operations in Indonesia and Peru, both of which have implemented EITI, 
and we actively support and participate in associated in-country processes 
as part of EITI.
In addition to our country-level EITI commitments 
and regulatory reporting obligations, our practice is to provide transparency 
by voluntarily reporting cash payments to governments in all significant 
jurisdictions where we conduct business.
Tax risks are identified 
and monitored by a global team of tax professionals, who assist in executing 
our tax affairs in line with our strategy, PBC and internal control policies.
We are committed to fully cooperating with all tax authorities and providing 
access to accounting and governance documentation as requested.
We contribute to 
the wealth and 
prosperity of the 
countries, regions 
and communities 
where we operate 
by generating 
economic value.
We fund our social 
investment programs directly through each operation and their respective 
foundation or community trust fund.
Our 
investment target for 2023 is approximately $200 million, and we invested $177 
million during 2022, which exceeded our target of $171 million.
SDG 12 — Responsible Consumption and Production — is central 
to our strategy of being foremost in the global copper industry.
79
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
THRIVING
ENVIRONMENTS
FCX recognizes that mining impacts the natural environment.
We are committed 
to conducting our mining and processing operations in a manner that 
minimizes adverse impacts on the environment and supports protection of 
the natural environment and ecosystems through responsible environmental 
stewardship, strong management systems and continuous improvement.
Our workforce incorporates environmental awareness into daily activities 
and implements actions that advance environmental protection.
Our Environmental Policy serves as the foundation for our protection of the 
natural environment in the regions where we live and work.
In addition to adhering to strict compliance with laws and regulations, and 
implementing risk management strategies based on verifiable data and 
sound science, we plan and conduct our operations in a manner that seeks 
to minimize adverse environmental effects, with a particular focus on climate, 
water, biodiversity and tailings and waste management.
In 2022, we continued to implement the Global Industry Standard on Tailings 
Management to ensure that we are focusing our efforts on our highest priority 
Tailings Storage Facilities.
Mining is energy-intensive and 
generates significant GHG emissions, which contribute to climate change.
It is a critical component in the technologies that will be deployed in a highly 
electrified and low-carbon economy, including solar and wind energy and electric vehicles.
We are dedicated to supplying the global economy with responsibly produced copper which includes operating in 
a manner that manages and mitigates our GHG emissions and other climate-related risks and impacts.
FCX aspires to participate in, and positively 
contribute to, a 2050 net zero economy.
REDUCTION 
	
We strive to reduce, manage and mitigate our GHG emissions 
where possible.
RESILIENCE 
	
We strive to enhance our resilience to climate change risks (both 
physical and transitional risks) for our current and future operations, 
our host communities and our stakeholders.
This 
includes collaborating with partners in our value chain, and industry 
associations, to identify climate-related solutions that will support the 
transition to a low-carbon economy and ultimately meet the goals of 
the Paris Agreement.
We continue to make meaningful progress in advancing efforts to decarbonize 
our electricity supply.
In 2022, we conducted a preliminary scoping study to 
assess the viability of replacing PT-FI’s coal-fired power plant with a gas-fired 
combined cycle facility fueled by liquified natural gas (LNG).
The findings 
show LNG has the potential to be an especially durable, lower-carbon 
energy source for our remote and complex operations in Indonesia.
We 
are proceeding with a comprehensive feasibility study and permit engineering, 
which we expect to complete by the end of 2023.
We continue to advance our “Copper Skies” initiative, which is focused on 
increasing renewable energy power for our Americas operations.
Our focus on 
responsibly transitioning our energy supply is part of our broader effort to further 
refine our decarbonization roadmap to achieve our goals — today and for the 
future.
In 2022, we experienced slower-than-planned progress due to demand 
and changing dynamics in the renewables market and permitting process.
In 2022, we committed to formal 
collaboration with Caterpillar’s Early Learner program and Komatsu’s GHG 
Alliance, both of which are focused on the development and advancement of 
zero-emissions mining trucks and supporting technologies and infrastructure.
At PT-FI, we incorporated autonomous and remote-operated equipment 
to reduce workforce exposure to ground failure, wet muck spills and air 
contaminants, and to support reduced emissions.
View more data in 
the Performance 
Data Section 43+29+11+10+6+1+J
Natural Gas	
43%
Hydro	
29%
Coal, Other Fossil Fuels	
11%
Solar, Wind, Geothermal	 10%
Nuclear	
6%
Other	
1%
2022
PURCHASED POWER
BY SOURCE
(%) 89+7+3+1+J
Copper Mining	
89%
Smelting & Refining	
7% 
Molybdenum Mining	
3%
Other	
1%
2022
GHG EMISSIONS
BY BUSINESS AREA1
(%)
38+21+41+J
Scope 1	
38%
Scope 2	
21%
Scope 3	
41%
2022
GHG EMISSIONS
BY TYPE
(%)
1.
Reflects Scope 1 and 2 emissions only.
Intensity reduction targets (CO2e metric tons / metric ton copper) include total (Scope 1 and 2) emissions and do not include by-products in the denominator.
Our PT-FI intensity reduction target is based on payable copper produced in concentrate.
Absolute targets include total (Scope 1 and 2) emissions.
REDUCTION
In 2022, our global absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions increased by 
6.9% to approximately 7.7 million metric tons from approximately 7.2 million 
metric tons the prior year.
Despite the GHG emissions increase in 2022, our absolute 
Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions in 2022 were 6% lower than our 2018 baseline 
levels reflecting significant improvements in energy efficiency and grid 
decarbonization in recent years.
In the coming years, we expect this performance to vary due 
to changes in ore composition and related processing requirements, which 
can impact emissions intensity performance.
In 2023, GHG emissions are expected to 
increase to more normalized levels commensurate with production plans.
View more data in 
the Performance 
Data Section
 83
ADVANCING OUR SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS INITIATIVES
Scope 3 emissions occur both upstream and downstream of our operations.
Downstream emissions result from 
transport, further refining or transforming of our copper into useable products.
For some metals other than copper, Scope 3 emissions can be multiple times 
their combined Scope 1 and 2 emissions.
For FCX, our estimated 2022 Scope 3 
emissions represented approximately 41% of our total Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions.
SBTi requires a Scope 3 target if Scope 3 emissions 
exceed 40% of total emissions.
RESILIENCE
A core pillar of our climate strategy is focused on enhancing resilience – for 
our operations, our host communities and our stakeholders.
This includes 
working to identify, analyze and prepare for an increase in extreme weather 
events, water stress and other potential climate change impacts.
In general, the results of the analysis 
demonstrate that physical risks are highest for FCX in the Current State 
scenario and lowest in the Aggressive Climate Action scenario.
Conversely, 
transition risks are highest in the Aggressive Action scenario and lowest in the 
Current State Scenario.
In addition, we are working with peers at ICMM 
to develop Scope 3 guidance for defining, reporting and target development.
When applied to oxidized copper ores, 
conventional leaching typically recovers between 35% and 85% of contained 
copper.
Recovery rates depend on a variety of factors, including mineralogy, 
particle size, acid levels, copper grade, and the length of the leaching process.
Our team of experts designs each of our leaching processes by modeling 
these variables with the aim of optimizing recovery.
We are continuing our work to apply covers to the leach stockpiles because 
heat retention has been found to enhance recoveries.
Early indications show 
the potential to recover an additional 10% of copper from our stockpiles when 
heat is retained.
At our Safford operation in Arizona, our team is 
applying covers to our leach stockpiles to increase heat 
retention which has been found to enhance recoveries.
OUR APPROACH
Water is essential to our work and vital to the long-term sustainability of the 
company and our host communities.
We 
recognize the importance of working collaboratively with our stakeholders to 
secure access to water in a socially and environmentally responsible manner, 
and we are dedicated to continuously improving our water programs over time.
The global nature of our operations requires a site-specific approach to our 
water strategy.
These varied environments can lead to circumstances of 
significant competition for water, or conversely where considerable effort is 
required to manage excess water supply.
Understanding Our Water Supply Risks 
Based on a combination of resources from the World Resources Institute 
(WRI), our own qualitative assessments and our local knowledge of site-
specific circumstances, the number of water risk regions with poor water 
quality or scarce supply is increasing globally, and as a result, competition 
for water is expected to increase.
Risk considerations include climate 
conditions, water sources, baseline water stress, excess water, litigation and 
access challenges.
Our water supply risk assessment is an iterative process that we aim to update 
periodically.
Over time, we plan to assess and, when appropriate, integrate 
additional critical risks to our water supply risk analysis — such as water quality, 
reputational risks, and shared water resource management — and in due 
course, the potential longer-term impacts associated with climate change.
Climate conditions based on the Köppen-Geiger climate classification terminology.
We seek to review our water usage and consumption patterns regularly in 
order to understand our water balances, as discussed on page 89, and identify 
efficiency opportunities.
Significant growth, overallocation and 
declining climate conditions have resulted in water shortages and stress 
that impact Colorado River water users.
Our Morenci and Sierrita mines 
in Arizona are currently our only sites that directly utilize water from the 
Colorado River through the Central Arizona Project (CAP) system, a 336-
mile long system of aqueducts, tunnels, pumping stations and pipelines.
The stored water is regulated by the Arizona Department of 
Water Resources.
For each acre-foot of water stored, FCX acquires a long-
term storage credit (LTSC), which can be accessed at any time in the future.
In times of water shortage, FCX has agreements in place to transfer its LTSCs 
to local communities, allowing them to access the stored water in exchange 
for their rights to other water sources, such as the Black River (a tributary to 
the Salt River).
Carey School of Business, James, T., Evans, A., Madly, E., & Kelly, C. (2014 December 18).
The Economic 
Importance of the Colorado River to the Basin Region.
This infrastructure supports both our water requirements 
for mining and processing and the local communities.
Prior to the WWTP, 
the city of Arequipa discharged most of its raw sewage into the Chili River, 
leaving it contaminated by human waste.
The remaining 
half of treated effluent is discharged back into the Chili River.
In 2022, Cerro 
Verde was recognized with the distinguished “Positive Climate Award” 
from Green Cross United Kingdom.
The award, which was announced at 
the United Nations climate conference COP27 in Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt, 
honored Cerro Verde for its leadership in advancing the energy transition 
and supporting communities and the environment.
Developing Alternative Water Sources 
We are focused on diversifying our water sources — reducing our dependence 
on traditional freshwater sources and transitioning to nontraditional or 
alternative sources, such as municipal wastewater (effluent) or seawater.
PT-FI initially planned to utilize 
a local water source to supply the Manyar smelter.
Similarly, in Chile, the El Abra mine is located in an arid region with extremely 
high water risk.
88
Is there a photo for 
this spot?
With this information, we can identify opportunities to minimize water loss, such 
as evaporation, optimize recycling and reuse, and maintain compliance with 
quality standards.
Our total water reused/
recycled increased by about 15% in 2022 compared to 2021, largely due to 
higher production rates at Morenci, Cerro Verde and PT-FI.
In recognition of the 
fact that water considerations are unique to our different regions and sites, we 
have further enhanced our water data disclosures to provide greater visibility 
into our water consumption and performance at a regional level, available in the 
Performance Data section of this report.
This includes the health, safety, and production 
risks of heavy rains, arid environments, or heat-related occupational illness.
Company-wide processes to address risks, including climate, seek to cover the 
full life cycle of our assets — from a pre-project sustainability review process 
to resiliency planning for reclamation and closure.
These detailed evaluations were conducted in partnership with Applied 
Weather Associates (AWA) — a specialist hydrometeorological consulting firm 
with detailed knowledge of extreme precipitation at our sites — to analyze the 
primary regional climate model outputs for our global operations.
The aim of these reviews is to educate and provide a basis for decision 
making to site-level teams when they are faced with water management 
decisions.
We have initially focused the sensitivity evaluations on our tailings 
facilities and plan to expand this work to cover other infrastructure in the future.
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
Company-wide processes to address risks, 
including climate, seek to cover the full life 
cycle of our assets — from a pre-project 
sustainability review process to resiliency 
planning for reclamation and closure.
The impacts of climate change, such as prolonged droughts, 
wildfires and sea level rise, are having a significant impact on biodiversity globally.
OUR APPROACH
FCX understands that the nature of our mining and processing activities means we are responsible for management 
of our land and associated biodiversity.
We are committed to proactively managing and mitigating the impacts of our 
operations on biodiversity, land and surrounding ecosystems, which includes effectively identifying and managing 
biodiversity-related risks.
We have integrated the hierarchy 
into our existing project development process and trained our environmental and operational teams to routinely apply it.
We seek to engage our employees, local 
communities and other interested stakeholders in conservation work.
OFFSET
RESTORE/REHABILITATE
MINIMIZE
AVOID
NO NET LOSS
MITIGATION HIERARCHY
 93
Policies & Programs
Our Environmental Policy states our commitment to contribute to the 
conservation of biodiversity, implement the mitigation hierarchy to assess 
risks and impacts to nature, and commit not to explore or mine at any 
United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) 
World Heritage Sites.
The Environmental Management System (EMS) at 
each site is the framework for understanding the potential impacts of 
our operations on biodiversity.
•	 We are committed to formalizing and publicly disclosing biodiversity 
management plans for Cerro Verde, El Abra, Morenci and PT-FI (Grasberg 
operations).
Additionally, we plan 
to evaluate the Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures as a 
potential tool to identify, assess, respond and disclose our nature-related 
issues in the future.
•	 We participate in the Conservation Certification program of the WHC, 
which formally recognizes meaningful biodiversity conservation, 
environmental education and community outreach programs.
Seventeen 
of our operating sites and facilities currently are certified through WHC, 
15 of which are recognized with gold-tier certifications.
In 2022, Tohono, 
Port Nickel, Copper Queen Branch, Fort Madison, Safford, Henderson, 
Tyrone and El Abra operation were recertified through WHC.
94
AMERICAS
We implement a variety of programs and strategies at our operations that 
seek to proactively identify and mitigate biodiversity risks while promoting 
conservation opportunities in collaboration with government agencies and 
other voluntary opportunities.
All of our North American sites implement Wildlife 
Protection Plans.
These plans are based on adaptive management principles to 
effectively address biodiversity risks resulting from operational and ecological 
changes at the sites.
In North America, we conduct regular biodiversity surveys, and that 
information is shared with regulators and other interested parties.
In 2022, in consultation 
with the U.S.
At PERUMIN’s 36th 
Annual Mining Convention in 2022, the team shared videos about long-
snouted bats and Guanacos to conference attendees.
The goal of the visit was 
to develop a collaborative plan for green infrastructure and pollinator-friendly 
plants for the garden.
Both 
awards recognize Morenci’s excellence in bighorn sheep protection and 
conservation education initiatives.
Morenci has successfully contributed to 
the protection of bighorn sheep by reducing vehicle collisions and other 
dangerous human-wildlife interactions.
Through the site’s long-standing 
collaboration with the Arizona Game & Fish Department, Morenci has been 
instrumental in capturing and translocating bighorn sheep from the mine 
and its vicinity to supplement small, existing populations and to reestablish 
populations in historically occupied habitats in Arizona.
FCX operations in Ajo have 
been discontinued.
Safford (Arizona) 
Safford successfully planted more than 100 native trees, shrubs and grasses as part of a restoration 
planting in the Pima area in collaboration with the Gila Watershed Partnership.
Sierrita (Arizona) 
Sierrita collaborated with conservation partners at Bat Conservation International and Borderlands 
Restoration Network to plant hundreds of native agaves on the West Desert Trails, an 1,800-acre area 
of company-owned property that is open to the public for recreation.
These agaves support nectar-
feeding bat species that migrate between Central Mexico and the southwestern U.S. Sierrita received 
the Desert Project Award from WHC for their restoration and habitat enhancement efforts.
Tohono (Arizona)
Tohono engaged partners at Bat Conservation International to conduct population monitoring of the 
California Leaf-Nosed Bat colony on-site.
Ongoing surveys indicate that the population is robust and 
is thriving in their habitat.
Cerro Verde (Peru)
Cerro Verde’s biodiversity program aims to advance species conservation and improve critical habitat for 
multiple plant and animal species.
More than 30,000 plants from 20 different species are maintained in 
the site’s greenhouse each year.
These plants had a 90% survival rate.
Henderson (Colorado)
Henderson worked with WHC to develop pollinator lesson plans and activities, customized 
presentations, pre- and post- event evaluations and other educational materials for Henderson’s 
Earth Day.
We support Bighorn Sheep protection 
and conservation through education 
and protection initiatives at our 
Morenci operation, Arizona.
From the 
mangrove forests on the coasts, the land blends into a swamp forest, then into 
the Lowland rainforests, heath forests, montane forests, and finally, subalpine 
and alpine grasslands and forests in the Highlands.
The PT-FI area is adjacent to the Lorentz National Park, the largest protected 
area in Southeast Asia and the only protected area in the world that 
incorporates continuous intact tracts of ecosystems from alpine to tropical 
marine environments, including extensive lowland wetlands.
In 1999, Lorentz 
National Park was declared a World Heritage Site by the UNESCO.
Conserving and protecting Papua’s biodiversity and ecosystems is a high 
priority for both PT-FI and FCX.
We seek to establish strong 
partnerships with multiple stakeholder groups involved in conservation and 
natural resource management, including governments, NGOs, universities, 
research organizations and citizens.
Through 
the workshop, it was affirmed that PT-FI is meeting its commitments.
Additionally, as a part of PT-FI’s 2021-2022 
environmental audit, a review was undertaken to examine and to determine 
the extent to which PT-FI’s environment-related activities have fully complied 
with its obligations of environmental management.
An executive summary of the audit, including 
the audit recommendations is available on our website.
Biodiversity Education & Outreach Programs
Education and outreach are major focuses of PT-FI’s biodiversity efforts, 
including construction of wildlife sanctuaries and the creation of the Natural 
Succession Discovery Park on a former tailings disposal area to serve as an 
outdoor education classroom.
PT-FI has established wildlife facilities, where we 
temporarily house animals who were victims of illegal trading and a butterfly 
sanctuary, where we hatch and emerge endemic butterflies.
Additionally, PT-FI invites schools to visit its operations, both in-person and 
virtually.
During 2022, approximately 1,200 students visited in-person and 
approximately 300 additional students participated in virtual classes.
PT-FI 
reached a total of 2,815 students and countless community members through 
its environmental events in 2022, including events on Earth Day, National Waste 
Awareness Day, Environmental Day, Ozone Day and National Flora and Fauna Day.
97
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
Research & Monitoring
PT-FI conducts extensive research and monitoring in area ecosystems ranging 
from approximately 4,000 meters above sea level to coastal and marine areas.
Routine flora and 
fauna monitoring is conducted through collaboration with consultants, research 
organizations and universities.
The University of Gadjah Mada Yogyakarta is seeking to understand 
the species’ roaming patterns, range and DNA similarities.
In 2021, as agreed with Indonesia's Ministry of Environment and Forestry 
(MoEF), PT-FI agreed to a watershed rehabilitation project on approximately 
4,232 hectares of forest area in the Jayapura Regency of Central Papua.
PT-FI, in collaboration with local contractors, began planting native species 
in the forest area and will maintain the land until it will be handed over 
to the Environmental and Forestry Agency of Central Papua who will be 
responsible for long-term maintenance.
The program officially commenced 
in November 2022 with a tree planting ceremony, and at the end of 2022, 
168,718 seedlings had been planted covering an area of 153 hectares.
Countering illegal wildlife trade is a priority for Central Papua’s natural 
resource agencies and part of PT-FI’s commitment to biodiversity 
conservation.
To date, PT-FI has assisted in releasing 
more than 51,173 Central Papua endemic wildlife, including 50,871 pig-nosed 
turtles, 79 other reptiles, 192 birds and 31 mammals.
PT-FI cooperates with the Indonesia Animal Rescue Center, Papua Regional 
Police, Forest Protection and Nature Conservation, Forest Rangers, Forestry 
Department, Lorentz National Park Center and Wasur National Park Center to 
repatriate animals seized from the illegal trade of endangered species to their 
appropriate habitats.
The project was designed in line 
with PT-FI efforts to build capacity and establish stronger collaboration with 
the local government, while PT-FI will continue to provide support, such as 
manpower and facilities, for the rehabilitation and release of animals.
PT-FI 
continues to work with BBKSDA Papua and NGOs to explore certifying this 
facility with the Republic of Indonesia.
Tailings are the finely ground natural rock particles or by-products that remain after the 
economically valuable minerals have been processed and extracted from the mined ore.
Typically, tailings are 
transported from processing facilities to management and storage facilities.
OUR APPROACH 
The health and safety of our workforce, host communities and the protection of the environment are fundamental to 
our extensive tailings management program and approach.
Our objective is to have zero fatalities, zero catastrophic 
failures and zero unplanned discharges from any of our tailings facilities.
FCX has comprehensive measures in place to ensure our facilities are designed, built, operated and monitored 
to minimize risk to employees, neighboring host communities and the environment.
We remain focused on the safe execution of our tailings management systems by maintaining robust, multi-tiered 
governance of our tailings programs.
TAILINGS MANAGEMENT 
& STEWARDSHIP
MULTI-TIERED
OVERSIGHT
MONITORING
& TECHNOLOGY
LEARNING FROM
PAST EXPERIENCES
COMMUNICATION & ACTION
ENGINEERING
& DESIGN
 99
AMERICAS 
FCX subsidiaries in the Americas currently operate 15 active tailings storage 
facilities (TSFs), including 13 in the U.S. and 2 in Peru.
FCX invests significant time and resources to monitor its TSFs effectively.
This 
includes a multi-tiered, continuous review and inspection process that results 
in recommended actions, which we track until implemented and resolved.
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
NUMBER OF TAILINGS IMPOUNDMENTS1
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
Active2
19
18
17
16
15
Inactive or Closed3
55
58
56
52
48
Safely Closed4
0
0
0
5
9
Total Tailings Impoundments
74
76
73
73
72
1.
"Safely closed" is defined by the Tailings Standard and requires confirmation by an external independent 
reviewer and an internal Accountable Executive.
We are in the process of 
implementing the Tailings Standard 
at our Sierrita operation in Arizona.
As an ICMM member, FCX is committed to implementing the Tailings 
Standard by August 2023 for all TSFs with “extreme” or “very high” consequence 
classifications based on credible failure modes and by August 2025 for all 
other TSFs.
Consequence Classification Review & Tailings Standard Implementation
An important step to demonstrating conformance with the Tailings Standard is 
reassessing the consequence classifications of each of our TSFs, based on the 
credibility of potential tailings facility failure scenarios in alignment with the 
Tailings Standard definitions.
GOVERNANCE - AMERICAS 
In addition to the CRC’s oversight, FCX maintains multi-tiered oversight 
of TSFs at its active operations, which includes: 
•	 Corporate Senior Leadership – Executive leadership that 
participates in major decisions related to the management 
program, including allocation of resources for TSF-related 
operations, initiatives and projects.
•	 Accountable Executive (AE) – Chief Operating Officer who 
reports directly to the CEO and is accountable for the safe 
management of tailings facilities and for minimizing the social and 
environmental consequences of any TSF failures.
•	 Responsible Tailings Facility Engineer (RTFE) – Internal 
engineers appointed by AEs and responsible for the integrity of 
assigned TSFs.
Corporate 
discipline experts provide regular support to RTFEs.
•	 Site Tailings Management, Engineers and Operators – Internal 
team that implements the management program and regularly 
monitors, identifies and addresses potential risks.
For closed and inactive sites, we have a similar oversight structure 
that reports through our vice president and chief sustainability officer 
and includes the same roles for site-level engineers, EoRs, TSTs and 
ITRB (or senior independent technical reviewer) structures.
Tailings storage facility at our 
Cerro Verde operation, Peru.
101
Conversely, FCX’s updated consequence classification approach is based on 
the Tailings Standard and does consider the credibility of a potential tailings 
facility failure scenario.
The consequence classification process is robust and requires 
comprehensive risk assessment reviews led by an external or corporate 
subject matter expert facilitator and multi-stakeholder agreement including 
from the site-specific subject matter experts, RTFE, EoR and ITRB.
The AE is 
required to provide final approval for the consequence classifications.
We have completed our consequence classification review at our 15 active 
TSFs and are in the process of reviewing these with the appropriate AE.
We 
are currently on track to complete conformance with the Tailings Standard 
requirements at Morenci by the August 2023 deadline as agreed to by the 
ICMM membership.
We have 
developed site-specific implementation plans in collaboration with each RTFE, 
conducted risk assessments, obtained social and environmental baseline 
information and developed and deployed an assessment and audit tool to 
document our final conformance assessments.
Sites with TSFs with higher 
consequence classifications will require further stakeholder engagement, 
which includes partnering with emergency response and preparedness 
organizations, local government leaders and engaging with host community 
members.
We have been advancing preparation for this work, including 
enhancing our internal emergency response planning.
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
SAFE CLOSURE DESIGNATION
As part of our Tailings Standard conformance, we are working to 
demonstrate that our closed TSFs are “safely closed” as defined by the 
Tailings Standard.
For a TSF to be designated as “safely closed,” FCX conducts an internal 
review, including a suite of detailed technical evaluations and risk 
assessments.
PT-FI operates a controlled riverine 
tailings management system, which was implemented based on methods 
approved and permitted by the Indonesia government.
The 
ModADA is the terrestrial portion of the tailings management deposition 
area covering an area of approximately 219 square kilometers.
Below the 
ModADA to the south is the estuary portion of the tailings management area 
encompassing approximately 220 square kilometers.
Quantities of finer 
tailings and other sediments deposit in the estuary and the sea to the south.
GOVERNANCE - INDONESIA 
PT-FI implements comprehensive and robust governance and oversight 
processes of its tailings management system.
•	 FCX Corporate Tailings and Water Team – Technical resources 
that provide support and assists with guidance and direction for 
site tailings team and associated program initiatives.
•	 Site Tailings Management, Engineers and Operators – Internal 
team that implements the program and regularly monitors, 
identifies and addresses potential risks associated with the 
ModADA and coastal zone areas.
•	 ModADA Management Board – Multi-disciplinary expert panel 
that convenes yearly to provide oversight and recommendations 
to PT-FI leadership and engineering teams on priority activities 
including safety, risks associated with the ModADA and coastal 
zone, the structural integrity of the levees, geochemical stability 
of the deposited sediments, environmental considerations and 
stakeholder engagement.
The system has been in service for more than 25 
years and has performed reliably, safely, and in line with initial design 
plans.
Effectively Managing Tailings' Geochemistry
Tailings are the finely ground natural rock particles that remain after 
economically valuable minerals have been processed or extracted from the 
mined ore. PT-FI’s tailings are specifically managed to be geochemically 
benign, helping to ensure safety for the environment.
PT-FI analyzes the tailings samples to understand their acid 
production and neutralization potential in addition to the metal content, 
particle size and spatial distribution.
The information from this sampling 
program informs the mill operators about the expected behavior of the tailings 
with respect to potential acid generation, and if any adjustments to mill feed 
should be made such as the addition of limestone.
If the measured ratio is not at 
the desired level, PT-FI can blend the material with higher neutralizing material 
until it reaches the desired level.
104
PT-FI ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING PROGRAM
PT-FI commits significant resources to support extensive environmental 
management and monitoring measures to manage tailings safely.
A multi-disciplinary, multi-department 
team routinely monitors surface and groundwater quality, air quality, 
hydrological characteristics, sediment quality, meteorological patterns and 
ecological characteristics of the entire operations area.
TEL is 
registered with the MoEF as a Referenced Environmental Laboratory.
The Tailings Management Roadmap Update
During 2022, PT-FI continued working with Indonesia’s MoEF on the Tailings 
Management Roadmap, a process that was agreed and established with 
the MoEF in December 2018 to support continuous improvement of PT-FI’s 
environmental and tailings management practices.
PT-FI has complied to date with the Tailings Management Roadmap for the 
2019 – 2024 period.
In 2022, PT-FI continued to work with MoEF on developing 
projects that represent incremental improvements to the performance of the 
tailings management system, in both the terrestrial and estuary portions of 
the tailings management area.
Natural growth of the island and associated growth of mangrove forests has 
been observed through a series of satellite images.
In 
2022, University of Papua researchers identified 1,089 plant species growing 
naturally on tailings compared to the 504 species identified in the same area 
in 2005.
These studies are ongoing in 2023.
PT-FI commits significant resources to support 
extensive environmental management and 
monitoring measures to manage tailings safely.
Responsible management of all these materials is critical to 
complying with environmental regulations, maintaining community and 
environmental health, and advancing social acceptance of our operations.
The volume of mining 
and mineral processing waste we generate varies depending on site-
specific mine plans.
These materials are typically managed in designated, 
engineered stockpiles or impoundments.
The teams are responsible for advancing our technical expertise 
and developing leadership skills through multi-site collaboration.
Our experts 
provide guidance to support global consistency in our waste management 
programs and adherence to FCX’s environmental policy.
Proceeds will benefit local community organizations.
We generated 331 million metric tons of tailings, 414 million metric tons of 
waste rock and overburden and 683 thousand metric tons of slag in 2022.
We aim to divert waste from disposal by reusing and recycling the waste 
when possible.
The Manyar smelter’s waste reduction strategy includes sending recyclable 
construction waste from the project to the facility.
Leftover rebar and other 
materials will be sorted, cleaned and cut before being sold to local buyers.
Profits from sales of these materials will be allocated to Yatamam community 
programs, which currently focus on education for orphans.
OUR APPROACH 
FCX understands that effectively reclaiming disturbed land and responsibly closing our mining and processing sites is 
critical to maintaining the trust of our local communities, governments, and other interested stakeholders, and as such, 
reclamation and mine closure processes are integral to our site planning and ongoing operations.
Our philosophy of responsible production continues when we close our mining and processing 
sites through to reclamation.
At each of our operations, we have mine closure 
and reclamation plans with site-specific environmental measures designed to minimize long-term impacts, promote 
ecosystem reestablishment, and protect the watersheds where we operate.
To support future anticipated closure and 
reclamation costs, each operating mine site has asset retirement obligations aligned with approved closure plans.
Asset retirement obligations are estimated and accounted for in accordance with generally accepted accounting 
principles (GAAP) in the U.S. and are audited by an independent accounting firm.
We plan for, 
continually evaluate and carry out concurrent reclamation when possible at our operating mine sites.
We are not currently 
implementing any large-scale concurrent reclamation-related earthworks, regrading or capping activities.
By 2024, we plan to have dedicated an area of land to test our site-specific 
reclamation programs at each of our North America operating mining sites 
and at Cerro Verde.
We have final reclamation plots constructed in the 
Highlands at PT-FI in addition to a number of large-scale reclamation areas in 
the Lowlands.
By 2024, PT-FI anticipates it will dismantle the Grasberg 
surface facilities that are no longer needed and planned reclamation work on 
the surface mine area will approach completion.
FCX recognizes the impact of its historic operations and works to reclaim and 
restore areas associated with those legacy liabilities.
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
In Colorado, we work with Trout Unlimited and the Division of 
Reclamation, Mining and Safety in a multi-year partnership focused 
on supporting a clean watershed.
OUR APPROACH 
All of our mining and mineral processing operations and technology centers 
maintain Environmental Management Systems (EMS) that are certified to 
the ISO 14001:2015 standard by independent auditors.
As part of our EMS, 
our workforce is trained on site-specific subject areas and annually on 
environmental issues, and is supported by environmental professionals 
working in the field.
Critical controls are focused on the elimination of unplanned 
releases and prevention or minimization of impacts to water and other 
natural resources.
At the corporate level, subject matter experts train, develop and support our 
site teams, routinely conduct site visits, and in some cases, directly manage 
a group of site-based experts.
To support this effort, we provide annual training 
for our employees on critical environmental compliance topics, including air, 
water, waste and biodiversity.
In 2022, we resumed in-person training sessions 
and conducted approximately 5,700 hours of training.
Additionally, we trained 
our global teams on how to track environmental incidents in our recently 
adopted company-wide digital incident management system.
During each interim year, surveillance audits are conducted by external audit 
teams.
In addition, in 2022, our mining sites 
were inspected by governmental regulatory agencies 75 times.
We provide annual training 
for our employees on critical 
environmental compliance 
topics, including air, water, 
waste and biodiversity.
The current audit, which 
was originally due to be completed in 2020 and delayed due to the COVID-19 
pandemic, was completed in early 2023.
An executive summary of the audit is available on 
our website.
We integrate the findings from both internal and 
external audits into our corrective and preventative action plans at all of our 
sites.
These actions are reviewed by corporate subject matter experts to ensure 
such measures are robust and institutionalized for the future.
Our El Abra operation experienced an incident that was identified as 
significant in our risk register process during the year.
The site activated the contingency plan and immediately implemented 
corrective actions to stop the flow and cleaned up the impacted area.
We did not incur any environmental penalties over $100,000 on an individual 
basis.
Fines levied in 2022 were associated with Notice of Violations (NOV) 
related to water discharge monitoring and reporting at Cerro Verde, waste 
and chemical safety programs at El Abra and wastewater discharge permit 
violations at the El Paso refinery and rod mill.
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE INDICATORS
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
Reportable spills or releases of hazardous or toxic chemicals1,2
17
33
19
20
16
NOVs related to permit exceedances, spills, releases or other 
compliance matters3
10
5
6
9
12
# of Significant Environmental Events4
1
0
0
0
1
Environmental penalties5
$0
$124,682
$67,100
$18,951
$24,301
1.
Reportable spills excludes spills at PT-FI associated with pipeline sabotage.
Due to increased security efforts, the number of sabotage-related spills reported at PT-FI decreased from 68 in 2018, to 16 in 2019, to 8 in 2020, to 5 in 2021.
There were 8 sabotage related-spills in 2022.
When NOVs are rescinded based on the legal appeals process, prior year data are updated.
Significant environmental events are defined as those with a 
rating of 3 or higher on the consequence scale.
2019 penalties paid were from NOVs at Sierrita for dust events in 2018 ($30,000) and an NOV at Cerro Verde in 2007 ($94,682).
In addition, we agreed to fund a $200,000 Supplemental Environmental Project associated with the 
Sierrita dust events.
The Cerro Verde fine was paid in 2019 from a regulatory inspection conducted in 2007 due to an extended legal appeal process.
2020 penalties paid were principally from a Sierrita dust event ($55,000) and the 
failure to obtain a CO2 permit at Rotterdam ($12,000).
2021 penalties paid were associated with delays in commissioning an online, real-time groundwater monitoring system at El Abra.
