Our sustainability 
performance is critical to meeting society’s responsible sourcing objectives so that we can 
place our products, which power societal advancement, into the global marketplace today and 
into the future.
To supply essential metals to current and future generations, we are guided by our stated 
business objectives, principles and policies, and we work continuously to improve our systems.
We aim to continuously improve 
our sustainability performance and are eager to engage stakeholders on this ongoing journey.
These accessible 
channels complement our long-established community 
and human rights grievance systems.
Supporting this framework are internal governance and 
management systems that detail how we operate.
The Board 
oversees the strategic direction of the company, and in doing 
so, considers the potential rewards and risks of our business 
opportunities and challenges, and monitors the development 
and management of risks that impact our strategic goals.
The Corporate 
Responsibility Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its 
oversight responsibilities with respect to the management 
of risks associated with our safety and health policies 
and programs, environmental policy and implementation 
programs, human rights policy and practices, community 
health programs and related public health and medical 
matters, community policy and practices, governmental and 
stakeholder relations and social investment and sustainable 
development programs, programs to evaluate and address 
climate-related impacts and opportunities, charitable 
contributions, and political activity and spending practices.
Sustainability programs are fundamental to our pursuit of 
investments in mine expansions to grow our production profile.
OUR APPROACH
8
Freeport-McMoRan
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 
LEADERSHIP TEAM
The company’s Sustainable Development Leadership Team 
considers both imminent matters and emerging trends while 
providing strategic guidance for our programs.
The team 
is sponsored by our Executive Vice President and Chief 
Administrative Officer and is led by our Vice President of 
Environmental Services and Sustainable Development.
Capacity building through engagement is 
critical to assisting communities to be resilient to downturns 
in commodity cycles and their planning for eventual closure 
of our operations.
Our mining operations that produce metals subsequently 
sold into European markets and our metals processing 
facilities, including our cobalt refinery in Finland, are receiving 
increased due diligence from consumer-facing businesses and 
governmental agencies.
Our Product Stewardship team is led by our Vice President 
of Environmental Services and Sustainable Development and 
is coordinated with our global product sales and legal teams 
with support from multiple technical experts.
Toxic 
Substances Control Act (TSCA), and developing programs 
such as Korea REACH) 
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 
RISK REGISTER
The Freeport-McMoRan Sustainable Development 
framework is based on operation-specific factors and 
influences, including regional context, type and stage of 
operation and social setting.
The Sustainable Development Department and senior, 
multi-disciplinary experts coordinate with operations 
personnel to ensure prioritization processes are consistent 
with corporate procedures and provide associated 
guidance.
The company’s Sustainable Development Risk 
Register process is being updated in 2018 to include 
additional topics, such as climate-related impacts, with 
more extensive categorical definitions for risk evaluation.
This update is intended to reflect due diligence priorities of 
downstream consumer-facing companies in our value chain, 
including members of the Responsible Minerals Initiative.
Sustainability focus areas identified through this process are 
reviewed by our Sustainable Development Leadership Team 
and communicated to our Board of Directors.
Copper rod manufactured at our Miami, Arizona rod plant is 
prepared for shipment.
Our company supplies more than 40 
percent of the copper consumed in the United States.
10
Freeport-McMoRan
BIODIVERSITY
We own, lease and operate large land holdings, some of 
which are in and adjacent to areas of high biodiversity 
value.
Our operations are managed to identify potential 
impacts and, where practicable, implement actions that 
conserve and enhance biodiversity, including during 
reclamation activities.
We maintain a robust 
anti-corruption training and reporting program in addition 
to our Principles of Business Conduct training.
In 2017, approximately 80 percent of our global purchased 
power was from low carbon sources.
We continue 
to model multiple carbon tax scenarios to understand 
the range of potential increases to our operating costs.
The Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights 
serve as guidelines for our security and human rights 
programs.
(p. 19)
SUSTAINABILTY FOCUS AREAS
Collaboration with local stakeholders 
on projects to improve water quality 
and availability is core to Cerro 
Verde’s social investment priorities.
We engage openly with our employees and union 
leadership to successfully negotiate and uphold labor 
agreements, recognizing that prolonged strikes or other 
work stoppages at our operations can adversely affect our 
business, our workforce and regional stakeholders.
(p. 14)
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP
Our product stewardship team engages downstream 
customers, industry associations and international 
governmental agencies on operational and product-specific 
sustainability issues.
We believe that proactive engagement 
on product stewardship issues is mandatory to address 
risks associated with market access.
(p. 9)
SAFETY AND HEALTH
The safety of our global workforce is our highest priority.
(p. 15)
TAILINGS
Managing the volume of tailings, waste rock and leach 
material produced in our mining operations presents 
significant environmental, safety and engineering 
challenges and risks.
Through our Tailings 
Stewardship Program, we implement control systems, 
including independent expert input and reviews, to address 
and mitigate these risks.
(p. 29)
WATER SUPPLY AND 
MANAGEMENT
We recognize the importance of efficiently managing 
water resources at mining operations in both arid and 
wet regions.
While all of our mining operations require 
secure and reliable quantities of water for mining and ore 
processing, most of our operations are located in arid 
regions of North America and South America.
A global 
benchmarking of this metric 
indicates that our performance 
demonstrates a 10 percent savings 
in the number of trucks needed.
We had 11 spills or releases that were 
reportable to national agencies based on 
applicable regulationsc
Incur zero penalties in amounts exceeding $100,000
X 
We incurred $317,000 in penalties paid as a result 
of Notice of Violations (NOVs) at Cerro Verde in 
2006 and 2008 
Note: All performance targets are annually recurring.
a. PTFI management-level training and certification was launched in the fourth quarter of 2017 and final results will be reported in 2018.
b.
c. Excludes PTFI where 35 reportable spills occurred, including 21 from pipeline sabotage.
PERFORMANCE TARGETS
LOCAL HIRING AND SKILLS 
DEVELOPMENT
Successfully recruiting, retaining, developing and advancing 
talented employees from diverse backgrounds is key to 
achieving our business objectives.
Hiring talent from regions where we operate incorporates 
local cultures and knowledge into our business systems while 
supporting local economies.
The company maintains tailored 
training programs to facilitate this objective.
Training includes 
both life and work skills.
Technical training ranges from 
heavy equipment operations and maintenance to industrial 
maintenance and electrical applications.
Through 2017, over 
1,000 students have entered the program and approximately 
50 percent have graduated.
At our largest operation, PTFI, located in the remote province 
of Papua, Indonesia, we prioritize the hiring of indigenous 
Papuans.
Approximately 98 percent of PTFI employees are 
Indonesian, 41 percent of whom are indigenous Papuans (up 
from 36 percent in 2016).
In addition, our regional technical training programs 
prepare community members for careers in mining, with 
no obligation to join our company.
In 2017, 
NMI was enhanced to address skill sets needed for a fully 
underground mining operation.
Employee Cornelia Ratu receives instruction on an advanced 
remote mining simulator.
PTFI’s underground mining 
automation program maintains worker safety and increases 
productivity.
Seeking ways to recruit and foster career development 
for women in our company continues to be important, as 
women historically have been underrepresented in the 
mining sector.
In late 2017, we developed a survey for exempt-
level female employees in North America to gauge actual 
and perceived barriers to advancement, achieving a strong 
72 percent response rate.
Key themes raised from the survey 
results included work/life balance, lack of clarity related to 
career pathways and historical or unconscious bias.
LABOR RELATIONS
As of December 31, 2017, our workforce consisted of 
approximately 25,200 employees and 28,000 contractors.
Our policy is 
to ensure fair treatment and working conditions for all 
employees, including rights to freedom of association and 
collective bargaining.
At PTFI, export constraints early in 2017 created the necessity 
to implement efficiency measures to reflect significantly 
reduced production rates.
In addition, large-scale absenteeism 
led to the voluntary resignation of more than 3,200 direct 
employees and 600 contractors.
This occurred after PTFI 
made significant communications efforts to encourage those 
employees to return to work.
Senior Mineralogist Veronica Alejandro analyzes mineral 
samples with University of Arizona professor and graduate 
student Isabel Barton at the Freeport-McMoRan Technology 
Center in Tucson, Arizona.
The agreement covers the period October 1, 2017 to 
September 30, 2019.
In 
late 2016, Freeport-McMoRan received corporate group 
certification to the internationally recognized Occupational 
Health and Safety Assessment (OHSAS) 18001 standard.
In 2017, a total of 23 combined systems 
audits were conducted.
The Freeport-McMoRan Contractor Health 
and Safety Manual defines the minimum expectations and 
requirements for contractors working at our operations.
As 
with our employees, site-specific health and safety training 
is conducted with contractors and tailored to task-specific 
hazards identified and critical control implementation.
We measure our safety performance through established 
benchmarks, including our company-wide TRIR.
We worked 
117.5 million hours in 2017 compared to 153.1 million hours 
in the prior year, and we recorded a total of 443 reportable 
injuries in 2017 compared to 492 in 2016.
Specific surveys and “Day in the Life of Studies” were 
conducted with supervisors at operations in North America.
Operator Pete Rosales 
remotely controls a skid steer loader at the Garfield pit in 
Morenci, Arizona.
TRIR = [(Fatalities + Lost Time Incidents + Restricted Duty Incidents + Medical Treatment) x 200,000] / Total Hours Worked
	
2013	
2014	
2015	
2016	
2017
Workplace Fatalities	
35	
7	
3	
6	
5
Total Recordable Incident Rate	
0.74	
0.56	
0.56	
0.64	
0.76
Occupational Illness Cases 	
41	
46	
43	
26	
38
SAFETY AND HEALTH SUMMARY DATA
Including Contractors
SAFETY AND HEALTH
2017 WORKPLACE FATALITIES
OPERATION
EVENT DESCRIPTION
PTFI
Papua, Indonesia
After blasting activities in the Big Gossan underground mine, an employee was exposed to temporarily 
trapped blasting gases, resulting in his death.
An extreme, localized rainfall event created a large material flow that impacted a powerhouse facility in the 
highlands, fatally injuring a contractor working in the area.
Cerro Verde
Arequipa, Peru
A mine operations supervisor was fatally injured after a ground failure event on a double bench caused a 
boulder to strike the operator cabin of an electric shovel.
After removing a guard surrounding a tail pulley on a conveyor feed system, a contractor was fatally injured 
by entanglement.
Atlantic Copper 
Huelva, Spain
An employee walked into an empty kress hauler bay while a kress hauler operator was backing into the bay 
and the employee was fatally struck.
OCCUPATIONAL 
HEALTH
Freeport-McMoRan operations 
maintain comprehensive 
occupational health programs 
to assess the risk of exposure 
to occupational health hazards 
and identify controls for those 
risks.
Our 
Field Guide for Occupational Health and Industrial Hygiene 
defines occupational exposure limits, standards and 
practices that apply globally.
We continued to expand our fatality 
prevention program to review exposures to carcinogens and 
other significant health hazards in addition to traditional 
safety hazards.
These efforts are expected to lead to a 
stronger focus on critical controls related to dust controls, 
ventilation systems and chemical process monitoring.
The framework 
emphasizes accident prevention anchored in organizational 
leadership, management and assurance.
The CORE safety 
framework guidelines are publicly available as a resource 
for mining companies’ safety management programs.
Aircraft Operation
Blasting
Confined Spaces
Contact with 
Electricity
Contact with Molten 
Material
Drowning
Entanglement and 
Crushing
Exposure to Hazardous 
Substances-Acute
Exposure to Hazardous 
Substances-Chronic
Fall from Heights
Falling Objects
Fire
Ground Failure
Lifting Operations
Personnel Hoisting
Rail Collision
Rail Impact on Person
Uncontrolled Release 
of Energy
Underground 
Hazardous 
Atmosphere
Underground Inrush
Underground Rock Fall
Vehicle Collision or 
Rollover
Vehicle Impact on 
Person
FCXtraordinary highlights the dedication of our workforce to Safe 
Production and collaboration.
The Freeport-McMoRan Principles of Business 
Conduct (PBC) are a commitment to integrity and define 
the expected behavior of all employees and our Board.
We 
conduct comprehensive training on our PBC, including annual 
certification of management-level employees.
We do not tolerate 
the offering or payment of bribes, kickbacks or other similar 
payments to any person or organization or government 
official to secure advantages for 
our business.
Likewise, we do not 
accept any of these payments.
Our Anti-Corruption Policy and 
Guidelines require compliance 
with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt 
Practices Act of 1977 (FCPA) and 
other relevant anti-corruption laws, 
including local laws.
The training is mandatory for 
annual completion by select groups 
of employees utilizing a risk-based 
approach.
During 2017, in-person classroom training was conducted 
at El Abra, Cerro Verde, our offices in Santiago, Chile, and 
at exploration sites in Asia, Eastern Europe and Africa.
FCeX is a survey-based software platform designed 
to assess risk in the areas of anti-corruption, international 
trade and human rights.
FCeX has enhanced the company’s 
ability to identify, assess and mitigate compliance risks.
Formal fraud 
risk assessments have been implemented at Atlantic Copper, 
El Abra, Cerro Verde, PTFI and our corporate offices, and 
mapped with business controls which are tested and reviewed 
annually.
All of these risk assessments include corruption as 
a risk factor.
EITI is a global standard to promote transparent and 
accountable management 
of natural resources.
The 
initiative is a commitment 
by governments to disclose 
revenues received and by oil, gas and mining companies 
to disclose natural resource payments to governments in 
an annual EITI report.
Freeport-McMoRan 
has significant mining 
operations in Indonesia and 
Peru, both of which are EITI 
implementing countries.
Senior-level PTFI and Cerro 
Verde personnel actively 
support the in-country 
EITI processes.
Freeport-McMoRan publicly discloses its material contracts 
and we support contract transparency in the extractives 
sector.
CASH PAYMENTS TO GOVERNMENTSa
For the year ended	
U.S.	
Chile	
Peru	
Indonesia	
Other	
Total
December 31, 2017 ($ millions)	
	
	
	
	
Countriesb

Corporate Income Taxes, Net of Refunds	
$(151  	
$  5  	
$  50  	
$ 116  	
$   9  	
$    29
Withholding Taxes on Foreign Dividends 	
-	
8	
-	
105	
-	
113
Employee Payroll Taxesc	
288	
9	
43	
57	
26	
423
Dividends	
-	
-	
-	
135	
-	
135
Royalties and Net Severance Taxes 	
56	
2	
35	
151	
-	
244
Property Taxes 	
103	
-	
-	
21	
2	
126
Other Taxes and Feesd 	
46	
9	
46	
189	
(14	
276
Total 	
$342  	
             $33  	
                $174  	             $774  	
                        $23  	
$1,346  
a.

This schedule reflects a voluntary effort by Freeport-McMoRan to capture its cash payments to governments (net of refunds).
c. Includes payroll taxes collected on behalf of employees and paid to governments.
)
Copper concentrate is loaded at Port Amamapare at our Grasberg mining operation in Papua, 
Indonesia.
We conduct our security activities in line with 
the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights.
Nonetheless, the HRIA identified additional actual and 
alleged impacts relating to Cerro Verde and its partners.
The Cerro Verde team is reviewing the results of the HRIA 
with intentions to develop action plans to address any risks 
and impacts.
Our 2017 Annual Report to the 
Voluntary Principles Plenary includes country implementation 
details for Indonesia and Peru, as these countries represent 
our higher risk environments in terms of security and human 
rights.
The report includes information on a series of sporadic 
shooting incidents experienced by our PTFI operation in 
Indonesia starting in August 2017.
Our Community Policy requires collaboration with 
local communities to minimize and mitigate unavoidable 
adverse impacts and to maximize opportunities to deliver 
value from our business.
Broad, transparent and regular engagement builds our 
understanding of stakeholder interests and concerns, ensures 
communities have an opportunity to provide input into our 
development projects and ongoing operations, promotes 
understanding of our business and ultimately reduces risk to 
our plans.
In addition to direct community investment from operations 
and the Freeport-McMoRan Foundation, we have established 
community trust funds or social funds in the U.S., Chile 
and Indonesia.
These funds are typically managed 
by community members who determine the allocation of 
resources to programs that strengthen the foundational 
elements of sustainable communities, including education, 
health, economic development and the environment.
At operating communities in the 
U.S., we further progressed “Leadership for Sustainable 
Communities,” an initiative aimed to guide civic leaders 
through a process to enhance a community’s economic 
and social resilience.
During 2017, we maintained our commitment to improving 
science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) 
education opportunities.
The program is designed to increase teacher 
content knowledge and confidence in teaching math to 
improve students’ ability to master core mathematical 
concepts by the eighth grade – a key predictor of longer-
term educational success and the pursuit of higher learning 
and jobs in STEM fields.
As part of a “Girls, Women & the Global Goals” coalition 
of multi-sectoral partners convened by the NGOs No 
Ceilings, Vital Voices and WEConnect International, we 
committed to invest $5 million by 2021 to promote the 
economic empowerment of women and to address violence 
against women in Chile, Peru and Indonesia.
Participants will receive personal leadership development, 
online and in-person training.
In Indonesia, our PTFI operation has committed to provide 
1 percent of its annual revenue for the development of 
the indigenous Papuan community through the Freeport 
Partnership Fund for Community Development.
The Amungme and Kamoro Community Development 
Foundation (LPMAK) is a Papuan community organization 
that oversees disbursement of the program funds.
Freeport-McMoRan supports STEM education programs in 
its operating communities.
The Lego Robotics Club at the Gila 
Valley Boys and Girls Club is supported by a grant from the 
Graham County Community Investment Fund.
The Don Bosco Technical School in Calama, Chile provides 
quality education opportunities to approximately 800 students 
from El Abra’s area of influence.
Site-level Community Grievance 
Officers ensure grievances are handled in a timely and 
transparent manner.
During 2017, 152 community grievances 
were recorded at our global operations.
In 
addition to conducting our own internal benchmarking, 
we are engaging with a set of employee and community 
stakeholders to obtain their feedback.
We have brownfield expansion opportunities at both our 
El Abra operation in Chile and our Bagdad operation in 
the U.S., where we maintain relationships with indigenous 
communities.
As we advance these projects, we are 
committed to respecting the rights, interests, aspirations, 
culture and natural resource-based livelihoods of these 
indigenous communities in project design, development and 
operation.
In the U.S., we continued to build on our partnerships with 
federally recognized Native American tribes in the southwest 
including the Hualapai Tribe, the San Carlos Apache Tribe, 
the Tohono O’odham Nation and the White Mountain Apache 
Tribe.
Cerro Verde engages with local stakeholders at its Community 
Relations Offices (shown above in Uchumayo), answering 
questions, receiving grievances (17 recorded in 2017) and 
sharing information.
Site-level HRIAs, such as the recently 
completed HRIA at Cerro Verde, test the effectiveness of our 
management systems.
In 2017, with the aim of increasing employment opportunities 
for neighboring indigenous communities, El Abra created 
a hiring process tailored to these communities.
Designated positions are open to the 
broader public only if the company is unable to fill these 
positions with qualified community members.
As of the end 
of 2017, 13 positions had been filled.
Our PTFI operation in Papua, Indonesia has engaged 
with indigenous Papuan tribes for decades, including 
through multiple formal agreements to promote workforce 
skills training, health, education and basic infrastructure 
development.
The desire of indigenous Papuans to preserve 
cultural heritage is shared by PTFI and continuously 
demonstrated through support for cultural festivals and 
books documenting the social uniqueness of the Amungme 
and Kamoro tribes.
PTFI continues to work with Kamoro community members 
to review and mitigate the impacts of the Levee Extension 
project through a water transportation program and 
associated economic development programs.
This includes 
a fisheries program, which PTFI supports in partnership 
with the Catholic Church, and the introduction of cocoa as 
a cash crop.
In 2017, PTFI introduced a karaka (mangrove 
crab) aquaculture program, which includes the provision of 
crab breeding cages and training for 25 Kamoro youth.
These programs provide alternative income sources 
for Kamoro community members.
When brought to 
market, the increased protein content of the crabs results in 
higher economic value for the fishermen.
All of our mining and mineral processing operations 
maintain Environmental Management Systems (EMS) 
certified to ISO 14001, which are independently audited 
on an annual basis.
As part of the EMS, employees and 
contractors are trained on site-specific subject areas 
including chemical management, waste management, and 
spill prevention and response.
Our remaining operations are 
expected to achieve certification to the updated standard 
by September 2018.
During 2017, we conducted internal environmental audits 
at 13 operations, and our facilities were inspected by 
governmental regulatory agencies on over 100 occasions.
An executive summary 
and responses to the 2017 audit recommendations will be 
posted on our website when available.
CLIMATE-RELATED IMPACTS 
AND OPPORTUNITIES
Freeport-McMoRan is committed to managing climate-
related impacts.
While copper is crucial for the transition 
to a lower carbon future, we are pursuing efforts to 
mitigate potential impacts while advancing our 
commercial competitiveness.
Our Corporate Responsibility Committee charter was 
updated in 2018 to include oversight of programs 
to evaluate and address climate-related risks and 
opportunities.
We have initiated a multi-year process to 
adopt applicable reporting recommendations of the Task 
Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
These open-pit operations require 
significant energy inputs, principally diesel, electricity and 
natural gas.
As our open pits continue 
to mature, haul road length increases and haul trucks 
are required to move ore farther distances to processing 
facilities.
A global benchmark of this 
metric indicates that FMC achieves operational efficiencies 
greater than 10 percent compared to our average mining 
company peer.
** Penalties paid were from NOVs at Cerro Verde in 2006 and 2008.
In 2017, approximately 80 percent 
of FMC’s purchased power was from low carbon sources, 
including natural gas and renewable energy.
We have engaged Rocky Mountain 
Institute to perform a detailed evaluation of these 
opportunities by operating region.
We do not operate in jurisdictions where existing 
mechanisms for carbon pricing signal a material increase 
to our costs.
The associated hypothetical increase 
in operating costs does not necessitate changes to our 
business plans.
Our mining operations and associated infrastructure 
networks are temporarily affected by weather from time to 
time, primarily extreme precipitation and wind events.
Cerro Verde’s production 
was impacted, resulting in lower than planned sales volumes 
for that quarter.
Renewable energy 
systems are reliant on 
copper components.
By 2021, 
renewables are expected to supply 
100 percent of the operation’s 
electrical power requirements.
Each operation requires significant quantities of 
water for metal production or for site rehabilitation and 
maintenance activities.
We recognize the importance of 
responsible and efficient water management.
Our operations utilized a total1 of approximately 
1,560 million cubic meters of water during the year.
This effort is focused 
on obtaining long-term water supply contracts with 
multiple Native American tribes who have senior water 
rights in the state.
We 
continue to evaluate a major expansion at El Abra to process 
additional sulfide material and to achieve higher recoveries.
Preventing onsite and offsite impacts to water resources is 
core to our management system.
During 
extreme precipitation events, it is critical to route onsite water 
from areas in danger of overflowing to areas with adequate 
storage capacity.
The majority of our recycled water 
originates from reclaimed water captured at tailings facilities 
and leach pads.
Managing these large volumes of waste presents significant 
environmental, safety and engineering challenges.
In 2017, 
we produced approximately 191 million and 154 million metric 
tons of tailings and waste rock, respectively.
The primary 
risks associated with managing waste rock stockpiles and 
tailings relate to structural stability, geochemistry, water 
quality and dust generation.
Management of this waste is 
regulated in the jurisdictions where we operate, and our 
programs are designed to be in compliance with applicable 
national, state and local laws, permits and approved 
Environmental Impact Studies.
Freeport-McMoRan’s objective is to have zero catastrophic 
structural failures of tailings storage facilities (TSFs).
We 
maintain a tailings management and stewardship program 
designed for continual improvement and assurance, currently 
operating 19 TSFs and managing 56 TSFs that are inactive 
or have been reclaimed.
The Tailings Stewardship Program 
includes inspection and management processes associated 
with water dams and crush leach stockpiles.
At the operational level: 
•	 Qualified internal tailings-dedicated engineers and onsite 
leaders manage TSF stability.
•	 We employ qualified external Engineer(s) of Record (EoRs) 
for analyses, designs, inspections and reviews for stability.
EoRs are actively engaged 
with our operating teams to review ongoing operations, 
performance on stability indicators, and planning for life of 
mine tailings requirements.
•	 Water management is a key aspect of tailings 
management to maintain structural stability.
Corporate tailings 
engineers are assigned as “Points-of-Contact” for specific 
operations to actively support operations, engineering and 
surveillance, and facilitate communications between site 
teams, the corporate tailings team and EoRs.
The TST documents, prioritizes and tracks 
progress on recommended actions and inspects all active 
and select inactive TSFs annually and other inactive and 
closed TSFs on a site-specific schedule.
In 2017, our TST 
conducted annual field inspections at 19 active and 32 
inactive TSFs.
Sites have achieved 95 percent completion 
on TST recommended activities for TSFs (2004 to 2017).
Tailings, crushed leach, and water engineers pause for a 
photograph during a training and professional development 
workshop at the Miami Tailings Impoundment #5.
We utilize TRBs for all of our 
active TSFs in North America and South America.
We implement the elements of the ICMM Position Statement 
on Preventing Catastrophic Failure of Tailings Storage 
Facilities published in December 2016: accountability, 
responsibility and competency; planning and resourcing; 
risk management; change management; emergency 
preparedness and response; and review and assurance.
Likewise, we continue to enhance individual elements.
•	 We continued to enhance our operations, surveillance, 
and critical controls systems, and continue to make 
improvements on our Key Performance Indicator 
Dashboard for internal communication between multiple 
levels of operations, engineering, and management.
PTFI’s controlled riverine tailings management system is 
implemented based on methods approved and permitted 
by the Government of Indonesia.
The MMB is a multi-
disciplinary expert panel that meets on site to assess system 
performance and risks associated with the ModADA and 
coastal zone area.
Impacts of the system, including 
increases in sedimentation, were predicted in numerous 
studies and are consistent with the design and operation of 
the chosen alternative.
Data from biological sampling continue to demonstrate that 
the estuaries downstream of the tailings deposition area are 
functioning ecosystems, based on both the number of species 
and the number of specimens collected of nektonic, or free-
swimming, organisms such as fish and shrimp.
PTFI annual bird surveys on islands formed by fine tailings 
material and natural sediment continue to indicate an 
increasing trend of both species diversity and number of 
individuals observed.
Observations of species such as the 
white-bellied sea eagle, an avian apex predator, indicate a 
healthy estuary ecosystem.
The conservation and management of biodiversity and 
ecosystem services is a key element of our sustainability 
programs and biodiversity considerations are integrated into 
our EMS.
In 2017, all of our North America mining operations adopted 
site-specific Wildlife Protection Plans that include a summary 
of biodiversity baseline data, an assessment of wildlife risks 
associated with site operations and the identification of 
protection measures.
Sierrita operations 
collaborated with Arizona Game and Fish and the U.S.
This trend, which includes 
observations of avian predators, indicates the health of the 
estuary ecosystem.
In November 2017, the team released 129 pig-nosed turtles to 
the Minajerwi River.
Just months after commissioning, an increase in aquatic 
and avian species have been observed, including this rainbow 
trout held by fresh water systems technician, Tulio Peralta.
The program involves collaboration with a 
number of organizations, including the Indonesian Ministry 
of Environment - Natural Resources Conservation Center, 
Lorentz National Park, Mimika Agriculture Quarantine Center, 
Indonesian National Police, USAID LESTARI - Animal Welfare 
and Papua Animal Care.
Freeport-McMoRan continued to participate in the Wildlife 
Habitat Council’s (WHC) certification program, which 
formally recognizes meaningful biodiversity conservation 
and environmental education and community outreach 
programs.
The Arizona Mining Association recognized 
Safford for its long-standing commitment to burrowing owl 
conservation by awarding it with the 2017 Sustainability, 
Preservation and Diversity in the Environment award.
The WHC awarded PTFI with the Gold Tier Program award for its 
wildlife conservation and community engagement programs.
Excludes all facilities located in Arizona for year 2013 due to water rights litigation.
c.   Excludes PTFI where 35 reportable spills occurred, including 21 from pipeline sabotage.
