Supporting this framework are internal governance and 
management systems that provide the details on how we operate.
In addition, as reflected in our 
Principles of Business Conduct, the board seeks to establish a “tone 
at the top” communicating the board’s strong commitment to ethical 
behavior and compliance with the law.
The nature of our business impacts the environment and communities surrounding our 
operations.
We mitigate impacts to the extent practicable through advanced control and 
remediation measures.
We develop infrastructure, support health, safety and education efforts, 
and provide local employment and business development opportunities.
The products we 
produce are critical for sustainability and higher standards of living.
SOCIAL
Operate safely, and uphold and respect  
human rights.
This enhances our ability 
to obtain permits to operate and ensures we 
have a dedicated workforce.
T
o supply essential natural resources to current and future generations, we are guided by our stated 
business objectives, principles and policies, and we continuously strive to improve our sustainable 
development programs.
OUR APPROACH
6 
Freeport-McMoRan
The board believes that full and open communication between senior 
management and the board is essential to effective risk oversight.
The board oversees the strategic direction of the company, and in 
doing so, considers the potential rewards and risks of our business 
opportunities and challenges, and monitors the development and 
management of risks that impact our strategic goals.
Each committee 
regularly reports on these matters to the full board.
The Corporate 
Responsibility Committee of our board is responsible for overseeing 
our policies and programs related to management of risks associated 
with the company’s safety and health policies and programs, 
environmental policy and implementation programs, human rights 
policy and practices, community health programs and related 
public health and medical matters, community policy and practices, 
governmental and stakeholder relations and social investment and 
sustainable development programs, charitable contributions, and 
political activity and spending practices.
The committee examines  
key performance data and receives briefings concerning challenges 
and emerging issues in these areas.
In addition, during the year, 
the Corporate Responsibility Committee reviewed community 
public health services including our malaria and other disease 
prevention programs in Indonesia and the DRC, our global social and 
sustainability programs and expenditures, community engagement 
efforts, political activity and spending practices, the safety reporting 
process at our operations, our risk management and sustainability 
programs, our human rights program, and our tailings stewardship 
program.
The team is sponsored by our Executive Vice President and 
Chief Administrative Officer, and is led by our Vice President of 
Environmental Services and Sustainable Development.
The team 
includes all business unit Presidents and Vice President-level or 
senior staff from the safety, supply chain, human resources, sales, 
compliance, and land and water functions.
That is 
why early, transparent and consistent engagement with stakeholders 
is critical.
Doing so creates mutually beneficial opportunities and 
reduces sustainability-related risks to our plans.
Our operational-level teams regularly engage with community 
stakeholders, development institutions and nongovernmental 
organizations (NGOs).
Mining operations maintain 5-year 
community engagement and development plans that identify  
affected or interested parties and programs for ongoing engagement 
and consultation.
Cerro Verde’s expanded operations, now operating 
at full rates, will benefit from its large-scale, long-lived reserves and cost efficiencies.
Our multi-functional product 
stewardship team is led by our Vice President of Environmental 
Services and Sustainable Development and is coordinated with our 
global product sales and legal teams with support from technical 
experts.
The health 
and safety management systems and environmental management 
systems of our operations obtain independent certification to 
Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) 
18001 and International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 
14001, respectively.
These systems include corrective and preventive 
action tracking for internal and external audit findings.
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT RISK REGISTER
The Freeport-McMoRan Sustainable Development framework is 
implemented based on operation-specific factors and influences, 
including regional context, type of operation and social setting.
Essential to our framework 
is the Sustainable Development Risk Register process, which 
prioritizes safety, environmental, social, economic and value chain 
challenges and opportunities based on our views of potential impacts 
to our business and the importance of these issues to stakeholders.
As part of this process, local multi-disciplined leadership teams 
utilize a matrix with consequence categories, including potential 
safety, community, environmental and production impacts.
Our 
Sustainable Development Department works with these teams to 
review processes to ensure prioritization of key business risks and 
implementation of action and monitoring plans.
On an annual basis, 
a corporate, cross-functional team of senior personnel reviews the 
Sustainable Development Risk Registers of our major operations.
Resulting sustainability focus areas identified through this  
Sustainable Development Risk Register process are reviewed  
annually by our Sustainable Development Leadership Team and 
communicated to the Corporate Responsibility Committee of the 
board.
We manage 
our operations in a manner to identify potential impacts and, where practicable, implement actions that conserve and enhance biodiversity, 
including reclamation activities.
(p. 17)
ENERGY MANAGEMENT
Carbon-based energy is a significant input in our operations, and our revenues include sales of oil, NGLs and natural gas, and other carbon-based 
energy products.
We have modeled multiple carbon tax scenarios to understand possible impacts, or the range of possible increases to our operating costs.
The Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights serve as guidelines for our security and 
human rights programs, interactions with host government police and military personnel, and with private security contractors.
(p. 19)
SUSTAINABILITY FOCUS AREAS
TFM faces a number of security risks associated with illegal artisanal mining and continues to socialize the hazards of this activity.
10 
Freeport-McMoRan
LABOR RELATIONS
As of December 31, 2015, 48 percent of our global labor force was covered by collective labor agreements.
We engage openly with our employees 
and union leadership to successfully negotiate labor agreements recognizing that prolonged strikes or other work stoppages at our operations can 
adversely affect our business and local and regional stakeholders.
(p. 14) 
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP
Our product stewardship team engages both downstream customers and international governmental agencies on sustainability topics.
(p. 9)
SAFETY AND HEALTH
The safety of our workforce at all of our operations is our highest priority.
(p. 15)
TAILINGS AND WASTE ROCK MANAGEMENT	
Managing the volume of waste rock, leach material and tailings produced in our mining operations presents significant environmental, safety  
and engineering challenges and risks.
(p. 31)
WATER SUPPLY AND MANAGEMENT
Most of our North and South America mining operations are in areas where competition for water supplies is significant.
(p. 30)
Operating the controlled riverine tailings management system is a key focus at PTFI.
Training has resumed in 2016.
Annually 
Recurring
WORKFORCE
Increase the percentage of women in our workforce, 
including representation in managerial positions,  
to 15%
X
Women comprise 10% of our employee population and hold  
11% of all managerial positions (300), which is relatively  
unchanged from recent years.
Annually 
Recurring
Meet company-wide total recordable incident rate 
(TRIR)a of 0.56
 √
We met our target TRIRa at 0.56 for 2015.
Annually 
Recurring
HUMAN RIGHTS
Incur zero grossb human rights violations at our 
operations caused by employees and contractors
X 
A security employee at our TFM operation was charged 
and sentenced for his alleged involvement in a rape on the 
concession.
Annually 
Recurring
Work with regional and local governments, 
community stakeholders, private sector developer(s) 
and businesses, to commence construction of 
town infrastructure and residential housing in the 
Integrated Development Zone (IDZ) in our TFM 
concession to support sustainable urban growth
Ongoing
Implementation of a limited set of IDZ development options is 
planned for 2016, including establishment of working relationships 
with government stakeholders in the newly-designated province 
of Lualaba.
We 
did have 13 spills or releases that were reportable to national 
agencies based on applicable regulations.
Annually 
Recurring
Incur zero penalties more than $100,000 
√ 
Our operations did not incur any penalties exceeding $100,000.
PERFORMANCE TARGETS
12 
Freeport-McMoRan
T
he ability to achieve our business goals depends on successfully 
recruiting and retaining talented employees from a variety 
of backgrounds.
We offer rewarding careers as part of a team that 
embraces safety, sustainability and the importance of giving back to 
the community.
With opportunities for continued training, education 
and advancement, we offer employees a culture of professional and 
personal development.
LOCAL HIRING AND SKILLS DEVELOPMENT
We make concerted efforts to hire locally, as this practice incorporates 
local cultures and knowledge into our business systems and helps 
fulfill our commitment to supporting local economic development 
both directly and indirectly.
At TFM, located in the DRC, 98 percent of employees are 
Congolese citizens.
Through December 2015, a total of 714 students have entered the 
program and 304 have graduated – over half of whom have been hired or 
are in the process of being hired by the company.
WORKFORCE
EMPLOYEES
Approximately 34,500
	 36%	
North America
	 35%	
Indonesia
	 15%	
South America
	 10%	
Africa
	
4%	
Europe/Other
CONTRACTORS
Approximately 37,500
	 55%	
Indonesia
	 17%	
South America
	 16%	
Africa
	 11%	
North America
	
1%	
Europe/Other
Workforce data includes FM O&G
Over 300 Native American students have graduated from the San Carlos Training 
Institute, where they received training in fields including heavy equipment operations 
and maintenance, welding, electrical work and instrumentation.
Yvette Quade, a 
recent graduate, is now a haul truck driver at the Safford operation.
We work cooperatively with 
27 unions worldwide.
Approximately 48 percent of our employee 
population is covered by collective bargaining agreements, 9 percent 
of which is covered by agreements that will be renegotiated during 
2016.
Our policy is to ensure fair treatment and work conditions for 
all employees, including rights to freedom of association and collective 
bargaining.
During the successful and collaborative 
negotiation process, there were no work stoppages.
Due to the market downturn in 2015, we revised our production 
plans to adjust for the lower commodity prices.
About 
1,100 positions in the Americas were eliminated in 2015.
In North America, eligible impacted employees were offered 
voluntary resignation packages, early retirement programs, severance 
packages and outplacement services.
At El Abra in Chile, we implemented a short-duration shutdown and 
the 648 employees who were laid off during that time were provided 
supplemental severance benefits.
DIVERSITY
We operate in regions of varying ethnic, religious and cultural 
backgrounds and are generally the largest employer in local 
communities.
In 2015, of the reports made through the 
Freeport-McMoRan Compliance Line, 40 included allegations of 
some form of discriminatory or harassing conduct.
Each year, the foundation selects a recipient under age 40 who through their 
leadership has made a significant contribution to mining.
Africa	
Indonesia	
Europe/other	
South America	
North America	
Company-wide
	
98%	
75%	
67%	
64%	
<1%	
48%
PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES UNDER COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS
By Operating Region
WORKFORCE
14 
Freeport-McMoRan
S
afety is integral to all Freeport-McMoRan operations, is 
the responsibility of all employees, and is managed by a 
formal structure starting with our Safety and Health Policy.
Our Health and Safety Management System consists of a  
framework for managing risks and compliance obligations.
Our management system is certified in accordance with the 
internationally recognized OHSAS 18001 standard.
OHSAS 
surveillance audits are conducted at our metal and mining operations 
on a yearly basis.
We draw no distinction between contractors and our own  
employees with regard to health and safety performance and 
reporting.
The Freeport-McMoRan Contractor Safety Manual 
defines the minimal expectations and requirements for contractors 
working at our operations.
The company-wide TRIR in 2015 ties 2014 
for the lowest in the company’s history.
We worked 200.5 million 
hours in 2015 compared to 202.5 million hours in the prior year, and 
we recorded a total of 563 reportable injuries in 2015 compared to 
567 in 2014.
FATALITY PREVENTION
Working with industry experts through our Fatality Prevention 
Program, we implement critical controls and aim to eliminate 
hazards completely.
These will be utilized in 2016 
to develop Safe Production plans and objectives to drive process 
improvements.
The intent is to engage employees and leaders to 
drive proactive safety activities.
The purpose is to set minimum policy requirements and 
identify potential gaps in existing guidelines or procedures.
Cerro Verde 
Arequipa, Peru
January
A contractor supervisor was struck by lightning and killed while he and his crew were evacuating due to changing 
weather conditions.
SAFETY AND HEALTH
PTFI operators remotely pilot automated loaders from the underground mines 
control facility, maintaining worker safety and increased productivity.
»
» Aviation Safety 
»
» Berm Management 
»
» Blasting 
»
» Bluestake (Locating 
Utilities Prior to Work) 
»
» Bulk Material Handling 
– Conveyor Belt 
Management 
»
» Bus Safety 
»
» Confined Space Entry 
»
» Crane Operation 
(Mobile and Overhead) 
»
» Specific Electrical 
Policies 
»
» Energy Control – 
LOTOTO
»
» Excavation and 
Trenching 
»
» Fatigue Management 
»
» Fire Prevention 
»
» HDPE Pipe Handling  
& Transportation 
»
» Hot Work 
»
» Mobile Equipment 
Operation 
»
» Open Hole  
»
» Overhead Power Line 
»
» Rigging and 
Suspended Loads 
»
» Round Stock 
Unloading and Storage 
»
» Slope Stability and 
Ground Control 
»
» Stockpile Management 
»
» Tailings and 
Impoundment 
Stewardship 
»
» Working at Heights  
(Fall Protection) 
PROJECT SAFETY HIGHLIGHTS
In Papua, Indonesia, we are developing the largest underground block 
cave mining operations in the world where through surface control 
rooms we operate cutting-edge automation technology to improve safety 
and production efficiency.
This includes remote automation, operation 
and monitoring of trains, loaders, ore chutes, conveyors and ventilation 
systems.
We are implementing an updated ground control management 
plan including high definition 3D scanners to detect ground movement.
The scanners consist of a series of wireless extensometer devices to measure 
convergence in real time, and a micro-seismic listening system.
Our Cerro Verde expansion project in Peru includes the world’s largest 
concentrating facility.
At the project’s peak, over 17,000 construction 
workers were transported daily through steep mountainous terrain.
Vehicle 
Safety Monitoring (VSM) systems installed on approximately 375 busses 
allowed for the monitoring of driver behaviors including vehicle speed, 
rapid acceleration and hard braking.
GLOBAL SIGNIFICANT RISKS
16 
Freeport-McMoRan
BUSINESS ETHICS
W
e are committed to the highest level of ethical and legal 
conduct.
The Freeport-McMoRan Principles of Business 
Conduct are a commitment to integrity and define the expected 
behavior of all employees and our board.
We conduct comprehensive 
training on our Principles of Business Conduct, including annual 
certification of management-level employees (approximately  
97 percent were trained in 2015).
We do not tolerate the offering or 
payment of bribes, kickbacks or other similar payments to any person 
or organization or government official to secure advantages for our 
business.
Likewise, we do not accept any of these payments.
Our Anti-
Corruption Policy and Guidelines require compliance with the U.S. 
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (FCPA) and other relevant anti-
corruption laws, including local laws.
The company developed an online anti-corruption training module in 
2012.
This approach is expected to increase the number 
of employees selected for the training and provide a more consistent 
and automated selection process.
During 2015, we held in-person classroom training at Cerro Verde, 
corporate offices, FM O&G, PTFI, TFM, and for Exploration 
teams in Serbia.
In  
addition, classes were held for 99 contractors at PTFI.
FCeX is a survey-
based software platform designed to assess risk in the areas of 
anti-corruption, international trade and human rights.
FCeX has 
significantly enhanced the company’s ability to identify, assess and 
mitigate compliance risks.
Formal fraud risk assessments have 
been implemented at Atlantic Copper, corporate offices, FM O&G, 
and PTFI, and mapped with business controls which are tested and 
reviewed annually.
All of these risk assessments include corruption as a risk factor.
INFORMATION AND REPORTING
Freeport-McMoRan maintains a Compliance Line to provide 
guidance and assistance to workforce members with any questions 
or concerns related to our Principles of Business Conduct, policies 
or procedures.
Spain, which prohibits 
anonymous reporting in accordance with Spain’s Data Protection 
Act (Organic Law 15/1999 on the Protection of Personal Data), 
is an exception.
EITI is a global standard to promote transparent and accountable 
management of natural resources.
The initiative is a commitment by 
governments to disclose revenues received, and by oil, gas and mining 
companies to disclose natural resource payments to governments in 
an annual EITI report.
Today, Freeport-McMoRan maintains significant mining operations 
in EITI implementing countries, including the DRC, Indonesia, 
Peru and the United States.
These visits included the opportunity for local stakeholders 
to interact with the Board, Secretariat and managers from these 
operations.
For the year ended	
U.S.	
Chile	
Peru	
Indonesia	
DRC	
Other	
Total 
December 31, 2015 ($ millions)                   	
	
	
	
	
	
Countriesb
 
Corporate Income Taxes, Net of Refunds	
$ (165  	
$  56  	
$ 113  	
$     6  	
$ 187  	
$   9  	
$   206   
Withholding Taxes on Foreign Dividends 	
-	
135	
-	
1	
-	
-	
136 
Employee Payroll Taxes 	
418	
12	
9	
64	
42	
23	
568 
Royalties and Net Severance Taxes 	
177	
12	
12	
122	
24	
-	
347 
Property Taxes 	
138	
1	
-	
17	
-	
2	
158 
Other Taxes and Fees 	
125	
12	
162	
169	
127	
(17	
578
Total 	
$ 693  	
$228  	
$296  	
$379  	
$380  	
$17  	
$1,993  
a.

This schedule reflects a voluntary effort by Freeport-McMoRan to capture its cash payments to governments (net of refunds), including payments by FM O&G.
CASH PAYMENTS TO GOVERNMENTSa
BUSINESS ETHICS
Freeport-McMoRan’s Dr. Jim Miller (center) joins fellow EITI International Board 
members, Congolese officials and other stakeholders for a tour of TFM’s 
operations and community development programs.
  )
)
18 
Freeport-McMoRan
HUMAN RIGHTS
W
e are committed to respecting human rights.
Our site-specific human rights programs are consistent with our 
corporate Human Rights Policy, in-country laws and regulations, and 
the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights (Voluntary 
Principles).
TFM was prioritized for a site-level 
assessment on the basis that it was identified as our highest ranking 
site for both potential and actual impacts in the corporate-level 
HRIA completed in 2014.
Our multi-sector industry dialogue on human rights training and 
due diligence practices continued through the Business for Social 
Responsibility human rights working group and Sustainability 50, 
an executive-level peer to peer sharing forum.
In addition, our team 
regularly engages with socially responsible investors and downstream 
members of our value chain to discuss and receive feedback and ideas 
on issues ranging from illegal artisanal mining to our public human 
rights reporting efforts.
Unfortunately, limited scope exists for TFM to make 
significant further improvements to its management of human 
rights issues associated with these issues.
Nonetheless, TFM is committed to continuing its 
engagement with government, industry participants and other 
stakeholders on these complex issues.
The HRIA results confirmed that TFM’s mature workforce 
grievance mechanism was effective in identifying employee-
related impacts, and that its community grievance 
management system was largely effective in capturing 
community-related impacts.
We conducted international-level stakeholder meetings aimed 
at verifying the TFM HRIA methodology and reviewing 
the findings of the assessment.
Approximately 20 entities, 
representing academia, investors, business partners and the 
NGO community, participated in these meetings.
Lessons 
learned from the TFM HRIA will further shape our global 
human rights strategy.
We are developing a work plan to roll 
out the site-level HRIA framework to other higher-risk sites 
over time.
Pictured above, an aerial view of Fungurume and map showing its growth 
from an estimated 40,000 in 2005 (green) to 150,000 in 2015 (purple).
20 
Freeport-McMoRan
HUMAN RIGHTS
SECURITY
The Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights serve as guidelines for our security and human 
rights programs, interactions with host government police and military personnel, and with private security 
contractors.
TFM, an affiliate of Freeport-McMoRan, 
is an industrial copper and cobalt mine 
in southeastern DRC.
While copper and 
cobalt mined at TFM are not classified 
as “conflict minerals” under Dodd-Frank, 
TFM is committed to apply a duty of care  
in product stewardship commensurate 
with its policy commitments and conditions  
in the DRC.
TFM’s product control 
and custody procedures 
are designed to address 
Freeport-McMoRan’s policy 
commitments of ethical 
business practices and 
respect for human rights.
Due to the importance of these procedures for 
the respect of human rights in the minerals value 
chain, Freeport-McMoRan contracted for and 
received independent assurance of TFM’s product 
control and custody procedures in April 2016 for 
the 2015 period.
Our 
Community Policy calls for collaboration with communities to 
minimize and mitigate unavoidable adverse impacts and to cultivate 
opportunities to maximize benefits.
GRIEVANCE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
Our operations utilize a community grievance management system for 
recording, processing and responding to local concerns.
Approximately 
525 community grievances were recorded at worldwide operations during 
2015, of which over half were related to resettlement at TFM.
Mediation 
occurs only if the complainant is not satisfied with TFM’s resolution 
to the initial grievance recorded through the grievance system and the 
complainant requests the grievance be presented to the IMC.
In 2015, the IMC received 26 cases and resolved 38, including cases  
from the prior year.
IMC cases related to community resettlement, property damage 
and employment.
In addition to direct community investment from operations and 
the corporate Freeport-McMoRan Foundation, we have established 
community trust funds or social funds in Chile, the DRC, Indonesia, 
Peru and the U.S.
These foundations are managed by community 
members who determine the allocation of funds to programs that 
focus on education, health and economic development.
During 2015, we continued our support of improvement in science, 
technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) education 
through teacher development and retention initiatives, programs to 
spark student interest and efforts to strengthen STEM education 
systems.
2015 COMMUNITY INVESTMENT
$165 million
	 19%
	 17%
	 15%
	 14%
	 12%
	 23%
Community Trust Funds
Economic Development 
 
and Infrastructure
Safety, Health and 
Environment
Education and Training
Administration
Other*
Note: Amounts exclude social expenditure from operating budgets
a.
Totals reported only reflect the time period from the acquisition forward (2007-2015) 
when all resources were combined.
The Association manages these contributions for projects in the Arequipa  
Region, ranging from education to basic infrastructure.
Of the women enrolled, 94 percent are from countries in our focus 
area of Latin and North America and 6 percent are from other 
parts of the world.
PTFI has engaged with indigenous Papuan tribes for decades, 
including through numerous formal agreements to promote workforce 
skills training, health, education and basic infrastructure development.
The desire of indigenous Papuans to preserve cultural heritage is shared 
by PTFI and demonstrated through support for cultural festivals 
and books documenting the social uniqueness of the Amungme and 
Kamoro tribes.
Coupled with the Freeport-McMoRan 
Chile Foundation for social investment, we significantly increased 
our strategic stakeholder engagement and community development 
activities in these communities in 2015.
In the U.S., we continued engagement with our tribal partners 
including the Hualapai Tribe, San Carlos Apache Tribe, Tohono 
O’odham Nation and the White Mountain Apache Tribe, investing 
over $2.7 million in Native American initiatives, including our San 
Carlos Training Institute.
Education was identified as a priority issue 
The Gerbang Emas (Golden Gate) program, implemented by PTFI and the Mimika 
Regency, promotes indigenous community participation in agricultural cooperatives.
As part of the program, over 300 local farmers grow and market cocoa, coffee and 
coconut products.
Above, 
the Secretariat and Education Working Group of the Forum discuss a women’s 
literacy program to be implemented in the town of Tenke.
TFM has established 
policies and procedures to resettle and/or compensate Project Affected 
Persons (PAPs) who are displaced.
These policies are defined in the 
Land Access, Compensation and Resettlement Policy Framework 
(LACRPF).
These meetings provide an opportunity to 
review the resettlement process, schedule and compensation system, 
and to address any questions and issues.
ASR responded to the more urban and highly transitional 
character of the Mitumba community, and increased the range of 
choices available to eligible households.
Under this option, eligible 
PAH can choose their own location for replacement housing.
Of the 
180 households who selected ASR, 74 moved to privately acquired 
residences in Fungurume, Lubumbashi, Likasi and Kolwezi in 
2015.
The Mitumba-Fungurume Hills RAP impacts a total of 1,248 PAHs, 
of which 325 are entitled resettlement housing.
The 
latter consists of a “starter kit” relevant to each household’s respective 
skill set and preferred livelihood strategies, including training, cash 
grants and direct support.
Depending on their skills and interests, the 
starter kits are tailored to jumpstart or enhance livelihood activities 
such as tailoring, masonry, carpentry or other locally viable businesses.
COMMUNITIES
In partnership with the Thunderbird School of Business, Freeport-McMoRan 
sponsored Project DreamCatcher, a program designed to educate Native American 
women on business and entrepreneurial skills.
Members of each 
physically impacted household under the Mitumba-Fungurume Hills 
RAP were invited to enroll in a basic skills training program.
In coordination with 
local governments and NGOs, we dedicate significant resources to 
helping communities and governments reduce public health risks.
An indoor residual 
spraying program targets households in the concession and more 
than 113,000 residential structures were sprayed during the 2014-15 
rainy season.
TFM continues to invest in projects to improve health and living 
standards through improved access to clean water, sanitation and 
hygiene.
Through 2015, 59 concession communities have been certified 
and maintained their clean village status.
Cholera is a constant priority health concern for TFM.
Working closely with the FHZ in a cholera outbreak 
preparedness effort, TFM provided cholera raid diagnostic tests and 
transported cholera treatment and prevention kits from Lubumbashi 
to Fungurume for the FHZ.
This is 
a testament to the success of local awareness and management efforts.
Due to the high risk of cholera in the region and recurring outbreaks, 
monitoring and awareness campaigns will continue.
An integrated approach on control of malaria transmission focused 
specifically in more urbanized areas of Timika is critical to the 
success of malaria reduction.
In early 2013, in collaboration with the 
Amungme and Kamoro Community Development Organization 
(LPMAK) and the local government, PTFI established the Mimika 
Malaria Center under which the Timika Malaria Control Program 
(TMCP) operates.
As multi-drug 
resistance in malaria parasites is a significant problem in Papua, all 
malaria cases detected are treated with highly effective artemisinin-
combination drugs.
A recent increase in the number of panner camps in the lowlands has 
presented challenges with levee maintenance and other earthworks 
associated with managing the engineered tailings deposition area.
PTFI’s lowlands operations and community teams regularly coordinate 
to determine strategies for effective engagement with panners based 
on location and timing of operational plans.
Community Liaison Officers are routinely in the field to socialize the 
health and safety risks of artisanal gold panning.
COMMUNITIES
PTFI services indigenous coastal communities east of its project area with a 
floating medical clinic.
The service has been implemented in part due to tailings 
sedimentation impeding areas of lateral water access to the town of Timika.
26 
Freeport-McMoRan
COMMUNITIES
Aerial view of dam terraces and panning camps in the highland portion of the PTFI 
project area.
This 
organization has conducted an update to the 2012 baseline survey  
on panning activity in both the highland and lowland areas.
In 2015, PTFI’s Government Relations Department led coordination 
on illegal panning with the local government (Provincial and 
Regency) and host-government security apparatus through a multi-
stakeholder forum called Forum Komunikasi Bersama (FKB).
FKB is tasked to address artisanal mining 
from the perspective of Indonesian regulation, safety and security 
and potential alternative livelihood programs for the panners.
For local community members, village-
based economic development programs, including coffee and cocoa 
cooperatives, are current opportunities.
Illegal mining 
in the TFM concession remains a significant security risk – in part 
due to the high quality of ore, the proximity of the working areas to 
nearby populations and the lack of alternate economic activity.
In addition to our established 
security measures, we are addressing the issue through a combination 
of ongoing training on the Voluntary Principles, engagement with 
the local community security council and investment in economic 
development programs to promote long-term growth and alternative 
livelihoods in the community.
The greatest risks arising from illegal artisanal mining remain the 
safety and security of our employees, the local population and law 
enforcement officials.
Illegal miners typically enter mining areas in 
large clusters of approximately 200 to 300 individuals, and work in 
groups of approximately 15 to 20 individuals.
Working conditions in artisanal mining areas are treacherous, and  
the risk of landslides, collapse and the burial of miners are particularly 
high during the rainy season.
In active mining areas, the risks 
to illegal miners include injury or death from blasting, being struck by 
heavy equipment or buried in their tunnels during mine development 
and operations.
TFM continued its partnership with nonprofit organization Search 
for Common Ground in 2015 to address conflict drivers in the local 
community, including illegal mining, through a communications 
and engagement program.
These performances helped 
build understanding of the negative impacts of illegal mining on the 
community, such as increased violence, and encouraged community 
members to develop solutions to underlying issues, such as limited 
opportunities for youths.
The company continues to engage with the DRC authorities to operate 
control measures at the entry and exit points of the concession to 
interdict shipments of illegal ore, and to implement mobile security 
monitoring.
TFM Community Liaison Officers conduct awareness 
campaigns to educate the community about the risks associated with 
artisanal mining activity.
All of our mining and mineral processing operations maintain 
Environmental Management Systems (EMS) certified to ISO 14001, 
which are independently audited on an annual basis.
In addition to job-specific training, workforce members 
receive annual environmental refresher training.
During 2015, we 
completed internal environmental audits at 12 operations, and our 
facilities are routinely inspected by regulatory agencies.
All operations have 
corrective action programs associated with the overarching EMS.
Where our operations have been assessed for penalties, they typically 
are individually below $100,000.
Energy represented approximately 17 percent of our consolidated 
copper production costs during 2015.
Our worldwide total greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, measured  
as carbon dioxide equivalent emissions, were approximately  
10.6 million metric tons divided between direct (57 percent) and 
indirect (43 percent) emissions for 2015.
Indirect emissions are primarily 
those emitted by our electricity providers.
In 2015, approximately 
67 percent of our purchased power was from low carbon sources, 
including natural gas and renewable energy.
* Penalties are typically paid in periods subsequent to the year of the environmental event and/or enforcement action.
2011	
2012	
2013	
2014	
2015
Reportable spills or releases of hazardous or toxic chemicals	
11	
12	
16	
14	
13
Notices of Violations related to permit exceedances, spills,   
releases or other compliance matters	
6	
4	
10	
11	
2
Environmental Penalties*	
$75,000	
$47,369	
$80,362	
$123,745	
$43,000
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE INDICATORS
The gravitational potential energy associated with the 470-meter decent of  
El Abra’s overland ore conveyor is greater than the power required to power  
the conveyor itself.
The majority of our 
mining activity occurs in open pits.
As an open pit matures, haul 
road length increases and haul trucks are required to move ore 
additional distances to the processing facility.
Crushing, milling, pumping and electrowinning are the most 
significant power-consuming processes at our facilities.
We continue to invest annually in energy-related research and 
development through our technology center, technical services and 
operational improvement groups.
We participate in utility demand 
side efficiency programs and support renewable energy standards 
when feasible, such as providing mining-related property for solar 
power generation.
Our mining operations are currently not located in jurisdictions 
where there is a direct cost associated with our GHG emissions.
We have received independent verification of our GHG emissions inventory for years 
2007-2015.
The Cerro Verde concentrator expansion includes a High Pressure Grinding Roll 
circuit that is approximately 40 percent more energy efficient than a traditional  
Semi-Autogenous Grinding mill circuit.
Our mining operations require significant quantities of 
water for mining and ore processing, and most of our operations in 
North and South America are in arid regions.
The majority of our recycled water originates 
from reclaimed water capture at tailings storage facilities and leach 
pads.
The company maintains a global water management program 
designed to (1) support metal production by supplying required 
water to process operations; (2) minimize water supply and water 
storage risks associated with operational, climatic, social, regulatory 
and environmental conditions; (3) minimize costs associated with 
the acquisition and distribution of water; (4) promote innovation 
and implement technology for efficient water usage.
In Peru and Chile, communities have protested mining projects 
because of concerns about competition for scarce water resources.
The WWTP is designed to treat approximately  
90 percent of Arequipa’s domestic sewage and industrial discharges 
that previously reported directly into the Rio Chili.
The newly commissioned wastewater treatment plant for the City of Arequipa 
supplements existing water supplies to support Cerro Verde’s expansion.
As a result, 
regional water quality is improving.
Managing the volume of 
waste rock and tailings produced in our mining operations presents 
significant environmental, safety and engineering challenges.
In 
2015, we produced approximately 349 million and 215 million 
metric tons of waste rock and tailings, respectively.
The primary risks 
associated with managing waste rock stockpiles and tailings relate to 
structural stability, geochemistry, water quality and dust generation.
Management of this waste is regulated in the jurisdictions where 
we operate, and our programs are designed to be in compliance 
with applicable national, state and local laws, permits and approved 
Environmental Impact Studies.
The 
failures led to multiple investigation reports, regulatory updates, 
and professional organizations’ guideline updates.
Our internal 
tailings experts reviewed available documents, confirming that  
our processes and systems are aligned with relevant publicly  
available recommendations.
The independent investigation  
report for the Samarco failure, the ICMM Tailings Storage  
Facility Review report (which considers the ICMM Health and  
Safety Critical Control Management guide) and other documents  
are pending.
Freeport-McMoRan’s objective is to have zero structural failures of 
TSFs.
We have an active tailings management program designed to 
advance continual improvement and assessment, currently operating 
19 TSFs and managing 52 TSFs that are inactive or have been fully 
reclaimed.
At our Cerro Verde operation in Peru, we completed 
construction and commissioning of the Linga TSF starter dam, with 
a targeted capacity of approximately 2 billion metric tons of tailings 
material.
At the operational level, TSF stability is managed by qualified internal 
engineers, with design, analyses and review by qualified external 
Engineer(s) of Record (EoRs).
We follow established operations, 
maintenance and communication protocols.
In addition, we periodically review as-built in situ conditions through 
field and laboratory geotechnical testing programs.
In 2015, our 
TST conducted annual field inspections at 16 active and 37 inactive 
TSFs.
Freeport-McMoRan has a critical controls management system in 
place.
Both were designed and built to withstand up to a 
9.0 magnitude earthquake and withstand a Probable Maximum Flood.
Our efforts to limit dust generation 
include the application of magnesium chloride, polymers, watering  
and wind fencing.
Levees have been constructed to laterally contain 
the footprint of the tailings and to limit their area of impact in the 
lowlands.
Waste rock and overburden are managed in stockpiles for possible 
future mineral recovery, reclamation or other projects.
These stockpiles 
are regularly monitored and evaluated for structural stability in 
accordance with local seismic design criteria.
At PTFI, overburden 
stockpiles are subject to erosion caused by the large amounts of rainfall 
in the region (average annual rainfall is 200 inches).
The eroded 
stockpile material is eventually deposited in the tailings management 
area in the lowlands.
This additional material, while predicted in our 
environmental studies, influences both the amounts and timing of 
deposition of finer tailings material in the estuary.
BIODIVERSITY 
We are committed to identifying the impacts of our operations and, 
where practicable, implementing actions that conserve and enhance 
biodiversity.
All operating mines have developed biodiversity 
management plans and Land Management Plans (LMPs), with the 
assistance of our corporate Biodiversity Task Force.
Biodiversity 
management plans identify potential biodiversity projects through a 
process that includes landscape-scale habitat inventory, assessment 
of biodiversity risks (linked with the operation’s Environmental 
Management System and Sustainable Development Risk Register 
process), identification of biodiversity opportunities and prioritization 
of projects.
The plans generally consist of voluntary projects conducted 
in partnership with stakeholder groups, including government 
agencies, academic institutions and NGOs.
LMPs provide the 
mechanism through which biodiversity considerations are incorporated 
into the site-specific planning process to minimize adverse impacts 
to biodiversity where practicable.
ENVIRONMENT
Due to large amounts of local rainfall, PTFI maintains a comprehensive program to 
minimize erosion from the Wanagon Stockpile (shown above).
Material eroded from 
the stockpile reports to the lowland tailings management area and, while predicted  
in environmental studies, can accelerate the deposition of finer tailings material in  
the estuary.
32 
Freeport-McMoRan
As of December 2015, 12 Freeport-McMoRan sites were certified 
by the Wildlife Habitat Council’s (WHC) Wildlife at Work program, 
which recognizes activities that create, conserve and restore wildlife 
habitat on corporate lands.
WHC and Bat Conservation International honored Morenci with 
the Bat Conservation Action award in 2015, which recognizes 
programs that actively promote bat habitat through enhancement and 
management activities.
Safford’s community development department maintains its productive 
partnership with Wild at Heart, an Arizona-based nonprofit dedicated 
to wildlife conservation.
In 2015, Safford staff led and implemented a 
Burrowing Owl environmental education event that reached over 400 
students from local schools.
Miami was shortlisted as a finalist for the WHC/
Pollinator Partnership’s Pollinator Advocate Award for its successful 
implementation of pollinator habitat areas and public education efforts.
Tyrone and Morenci have management plans that benefit endangered 
native fish, and Miami is conducting activities to benefit the yellow-
billed cuckoo and southwestern willow flycatcher.
We continue to work with industry groups and closely monitor 
developing concepts, including no net loss, net positive impacts and 
ecosystem services.
As this field evolves, we will continue to enhance 
communications on our biodiversity systems and initiatives.
ENVIRONMENT
As part of its Corporate Lands for Learning program and support for STEM 
education, Cerro Verde hosts regional students at its plant nursery to learn about 
native desert flora.
Each year 
approximately 400 photos are submitted by employees, and the contest successfully engages our workforce on biodiversity 
appreciation and to promote habitats at our worldwide operations.
The 
calendar showcases efforts by member companies to enhance and conserve wildlife habitat on corporate lands.
Winning photos 
selected by the company’s Biodiversity Task Force are presented below.
