Strategy
•	
Establishing a Climate Change and Decarbonization Strategy and 
Roadmap for 2021-2025.
•	
Creating GHG Reduction initiatives through Energy Efficiency 
approach such as optimization of fuel consumption, improvement 
of cycle time of heavy equipment units, reduction of hauling road 
gradient and shortening the distance for overburden disposal.
Achievement 2023
•	
Finalization of draft Climate Change Strategy and Roadmap with 
targets of GHG emission intensity decreased by 5% in 2025 from 
baseline year 2019.
•	
approved Proposal for an initial pre-Feasibility Study (FS) of the NBS 
initiative.
•	
Development of GHG Reduction initiatives through workshops and 
reviewing their implementation through the Climate Change and 
Decarbonization Working Group.
•	
Electrification study for Hauling Trucks at PT TRUST and passenger 
vehicles at IMM.
•	
Completion of Initial Study and FS in the former Kitadin Tandung 
Mayang area that has been handed over to Ministry of Environment 
and Forestry in order to calculate carbon sequestration potential 
before proposing reacquisition as a carbon sequestration area.
Strategy
•	
Developing the draft of Energy Management strategy and roadmap.
•	
Increasing the renewable energy in mining operations, such as 
additional biomass mix percentage for co-firing power plant at IMM 
and build solar power plant at BEK site.
Achievement 2023
•	
Drafting Energy Management Strategy and its Roadmap
•	
Operation of solar power plants at IMM PV-HYBRID 3MWp and TCM 
2.2 MWp.
•	
Increased biomass percentage to 4% from 3% for co-firing power 
plant.
•	
Construction of PLTS at BEK site with a capacity of 1.4 MWp and 2.5 
MWh BESS.
•	
Carry out Energy Audits and map areas for energy efficiency.
•	
Increase the percentage of biomass for co firing PLTU at IMM by 5%.
Strategy
•	
Supporting the achievement of National SDGs.
•	
Maintain the company's reputation through GMP implementation.
•	
Zero demonstrations that halted operations.
•	
Assistance in education and training facilities for teaching staff 
conducted in 5 site areas.
•	
Realization of regular PPM programs through the pillars of health and 
economic independence in 5 site areas.
•	
Realization of 100% PPM program in the current year to maintain 
social license to operate.
•	
Maturity evaluation of 10 mine closure programs and 4 regular 
programs in preparation for soft landing closure.
Topik Material Masyarakat Lokal | Material Topic local Community
Laporan Keberlanjutan 2023 | PT Indo Tambangraya Megah Tbk
Responsible Transition for a Greener Future
30
Strategi
•	
Pemilihan dan penetapan arboretum pada area reklamasi.
Strategy
•	
Selection and designation of an arboretum in the reclamation area.
•	
Carrying out ecological studies in the concession area,  
in collaboration with Purwodadi Botanical Gardens, BRIN, Lambung 
Mangkurat University and Mulawarman University.
•	
Improvement of the ecosystem in the Company's operating area, 
restoration of the coral reef ecosystem, and restoration of more than 
7,000 ha watershed area.
Achievement 2023
•	
Established 2 arboretums in PT IMM concession, Kanahuang 
Arboretum and 30 Gemilang Arboretum.
•	
Flora and fauna monitoring activities have been conducted in the 
Galam Forest conservation area at PT JBG.
•	
Added 50 coral reef transplantation tables with a total of 800 
seedlings.
•	
Completed the study of plant diversity and natural forest ecology in 
the PT TCM concession area in collaboration with the BRIN Research 
Center for Plant Conservation, Botanical Gardens and Forestry.
•	
Drafted ITM Biodiversity Management Strategy and Roadmap.
•	
Ecological studies in natural forest areas of the company's 
concessions prior to production operations to obtain baseline data on 
biodiversity.
•	
Finalization of ITM Biodiversity Management Strategy and Roadmap.
•	
Monitoring of flora and fauna in reclamation areas.
Strategy
•	
Reclamation, void and post-mining management activities are 
adjusted to documents that have been approved by the Government, 
such as Feasibility Study (FS) documents, Environmental Analysis  
Impact (EIA/Amdal) Reclamation Plan and Post-mining Plan 
documents.
•	
The Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources (MEMR) has approved 
changes to the post-mining plan of PT Kitadin – Embalut.
•	
Completion of all post-mining plan obligations in accordance with  
the Post-Mining Plan Document at PT Kitadin - Embalut.
•	
Implementation of a technical void management plan for  
the PT site Trubaindo Coal Mining.
•	
Complying with applicable regulations on employment, particularly on 
benefits and remuneration, including employees’ higher wage than 
the minimum wage in each work area.
•	
Availability of Company Regulations (CR) in ITM and its 5 subsidiaries, 
and Collective Labor Agreements (CLAs) in its 5 subsidiaries in 
accordance with applicable labor regulations.
•	
Based on competency assessment conducted at the end of 2022, 
293 (39.3%) employees evaluated have competency gap, with 
183 (62.5%) employees participating in the development program.
This figure shown employee quality improvement compared to 
previous year, where based on 2021 competency assessment 69.1% 
have competency gap with only 51.5% of them participating in 
development program.
•	
Availability of Company Regulations (CR) or Collective Labor 
Agreement (CLA) in ITM and its subsidiaries with regular updates in 
accordance with prevailing labor regulations.
•	
Refer to competency assessment result on 2023, there are 288 
(34.5%) employees evaluated that have competency gap.
•	
Specifically for company support on learning and development in 
employee engagement score in 2024, increase again by 3 points into 
75 as milestone to achieve 80 points at 2025.
Strategy
•	
Implementing the Safety Culture pillar as stated in the Roadmap.
•	
Designing and implementing Wellness program.
•	
Strengthening ITM's ERT capability and readiness.
•	
Implementation of Wellness Program in ITM Jakarta office and sites.
•	
Completion of Business Continuity Management (BCM) system and 
implementation of crisis simulation with ITM Jakarta.
•	
Strengthen Wellness Program as part of occupational health program.
•	
Emergency response team (ERT) training and emergency & crisis 
simulation integrated between Melak and ITM.
•	
Completion of integration between Safety Culture framework and 
ESDM safety level requirements.
Strategy
•	
Raising awareness of business and human rights for ITM employees.
•	
Mapping programs and initiatives related to business and human rights.
•	
Received a Green category of PRISMA HAM from the Ministry of Law 
and Human Rights.
•	
Conduct Human Rights Assessment for Jakarta and Site.
•	
Establish a sexual violence prevention and handling task force in the 
office environment.
Strategy
•	
Complying with environmental regulations related to effluent 
management and managing effluent  to meet quality standards.
•	
Clean water assistance to improve community health.
•	
Drafting the Water Management strategy and roadmap.
Achievement 2023
•	
100% compliance from wastewater management.
•	
Water management strategy and Roadmap Draft.
•	
Conservation activities at water source areas to maintain their water 
source sustainability.
•	
Utilizing organic waste into compost.
•	
Increased utilization of organic waste into compost.
Topik Material Limbah | Material Topic Waste
Laporan Keberlanjutan 2023 | PT Indo Tambangraya Megah Tbk
Responsible Transition for a Greener Future
34
Strategi
•	
Melakukan identifikasi pemasok kritis.
•	
Evaluasi kontraktor melalui mekanisme Contractor Management 
System – Health Safety and Environment (CMS – HSE).
•	
Evaluating contractors through the Contractor Management System - 
Health Safety and Environment (CMS - HSE) mechanism.
•	
Prioritizing local and national suppliers and contractors for 
procurement of goods and services.
•	
Ensuring fair opportunity and equal treatment for suppliers.
•	
Applying the latest standards to accelerate the procurement of goods 
and services related to operations.
Achievement 2023
Increased procurement from local foundries for mechanical parts.
Strategy
•	
Enhancing the company's existing grievance mechanism.
•	
Raising awareness related to governance and business ethics for 
employees and stakeholders.
•	
Ensuring the cyber and information security management in 
accordance with ISO 27001.
Achievement 2023
•	
No reports of violations of Governance Policies and Code of Conduct 
were submitted through ITM's Independent Whistleblowing System.
•	
To update the reporting tools for stakeholders (CG Tools) to be more 
user-friendly.
•	
Manage banking, fund availability, and capital structure to support 
inorganic and organic growth.
•	
Improve human resource capability and technology utilization.
Achievement 2023
•	
Coal production reached the target.
•	
Coal sales volume through EBP subsidiaries (coal trading) increased 
by 99.3% in 2023.
•	
Committed capacity of renewable energy business increased by 
339.7% (from 7.3 MW to 24.8 MW).
•	
Acquisition of PT Suryanesia, a renewable energy company in the 
field of rooftop Solar Power Plant.
•	
Secure 100% availability of funding sources (internal and external) to 
support inorganic and organic growth.
•	
Increase coal production and sales.
•	
Mencapai keunggulan operasional IT.
•	
Peningkatan IT Dual Speed & infrastruktur.
•	
IT Operation mengadopsi kerangka kerja ISO 20000.
•	
Bringing digitally integrated core business value by enabling digital 
innovation strategy and operations initiatives that have estimated 
business value.
•	
Enabling availability of network and system infrastructure.
•	
Enabling a lean and integrated data platform.
•	
Achieving IT operational excellence.
Achievement 2023
•	
Implementation of value impact tracking for sustainability (validated 
with FMC team).
•	
Support ESG practices by initiating ESG Data Platform.
•	
Scrum-Agile, Advanced Analytics Learning Program and Mini Data 
Analytics Competition.
•	
Streamlined DCC Learning Program to ITM Innovation Learning.
•	
Application & data integration (with custom applications and existing 
legacy systems).
•	
Dual Speed IT & infrastructure upgrade.
•	
ITM applications to be more integrated.
•	
IT Operation Establishing ISO 20000 framework.
Topik Material Teknologi (Digitalisasi) | Material Topic Technology (Digitalization)
Laporan Keberlanjutan 2023 | PT Indo Tambangraya Megah Tbk
Responsible Transition for a Greener Future
36
Strategi
•	
Mewujudkan manfaat nilai untuk meningkatkan daya saing operasi.
Strategy
•	
Realizing value benefits to enhance operating competitiveness.
•	
Accelerating value-driven innovation and improving the entire value 
chain.
Achievement 2023
Innovation Management: Implementation and Adoption 
•	
Organizing I3 (ITM Innovation Initiative) events.
•	
Managing and facilitating related initiatives both strategic and 
operational initiatives.
Innovation Learning Development
•	
Organizing the training and workshop "How to Work Agile" Batch 2 
(Melak) on August 8-10, facilitated by Corporate Innovation Asia (CIAS).
•	
Organizing the training and workshop "Innovation Jury" activity on 
October 25-26, facilitated by Corporate Innovation Asia (CIAS).
•	
Total Scrum Masters in ITM Group reached 39 out of a target of 48 (81%).
•	
23 out of 30 employees trained  were involved in project initiatives (63%).
•	
ITM 2024 innovation strategic plan and implementation through 
workshop/hackathon sessions.
•	
Launch of Site Innovation Strategic Deployment and its 
implementation.
•	
Fostering a culture of innovation through collaboration with HR 
Department to improve innovation support systems.
•	
Integration of digital and innovation processes.
•	
To expand innovation learning program.
•	
SPEX/Adoption/Scaling-up mechanism.
•	
Sustainability 
performance 
and compliance 
with governance, 
environmental and social 
aspects.
The HSEMS is 
managed by the Health, Safety, Environment, and Community 
Engagement and Development (HSEC) Department and 
supported by the Sustainable Development (SD) Department, 
which reports to management.
The HSEC and SD departments play a role in maintaining a 
comfortable, safe, and controlled working environment; 
ensuring that environmental, social, and governance (ESG) 
performance targets are achieved; and conducting evaluations 
to ensure continuous improvement.
ITM's environmental 
management commitment continuously emphasized on its 
vision and mission, Environmental Policy, Energy and Carbon 
Management Policy, Budget Work Plan (RKAB), and Key 
Performance Indicator (KPI).
The process of communication 
to stakeholders is ongoing in addition to periodic training to 
increase employee awareness.
[2-25]
The Company did not receive any significant environmental 
complaints during 2023.
As of the 
end of the reporting period, total environmental costs incurred 
amounted to USD73.2 million which includes the cost of void 
management.
•	
Prevent, minimize and manage impacts 
on the environment.
•	
Strive for the preservation of natural 
resources through sustainable 
management.
•	
Compliance with quality standards of effluent.
•	
Conservation and preservation of the 
environment.
•	
GHG emission intensity decreased by 5% in 2025 
from baseline year 2019.
•	
HR capacity strengthening and enhancement.
•	
Increasing quality and validity of environmental 
data.
•	
Performance monitoring and evaluation of 
environmental management.
•	
Implementation of environmental management 
through a sustainability approach.
•	
Monitoring the implementation of management 
through internal audits such as Quality Assurance
•	
Review (QAR), Data Assurance, and externally 
such as surveillance audits.
In addition, 
ITM has developed an annual strategic plan to optimize environmental 
management performance implemented by the Mine Operation 
Department and supported by the HSEC Department.
ITM's production and operational activities require energy sources that 
directly contribute to the amount of emissions produced.
The contribution 
of total emissions can have an impact on climate change which indirectly 
affects the sustainability of life.
ITM is committed to reducing conventional emission loads and GHG 
emission loads, and increasing carbon sequestration in support of climate 
change prevention as stated in ITM's environmental policy.
Pendekatan Manajemen [3-3][CSS-12.1.1, CSS-12.2.1, CSS-12.4.1] | Management Approach 
Sumber Daya dan Evaluasi | Resources and Evaluation
Dampak dan Pengelolaan | Impact and Management
Pengelolaan Energi dan  
Reduksi Emisi Gas Rumah Kaca
Energy Management and Greenhouse Gas Emission Reduction
Laporan Keberlanjutan 2023 | PT Indo Tambangraya Megah Tbk
Responsible Transition for a Greener Future
42
Penggunaan Energi dan Efisiensi Energi
Sesuai dengan Peraturan Menteri ESDM No.
B35 is applied to vehicles, own 
diesel power plants, and barge deliveries, with total usage of 
329,450,690 litres by 2023.
[302-1][CSS-12.1.2]
3 MW in Bontang and 2 MW in Melak, East Kalimantan solar 
power plants generating a total  3,970  MWh of electricity in 
2023 utilized as its own energy source and not traded to 
other parties.
ITM implements internal energy audits 
for the company's energy consumption.
The results of these 
audits are verified by an independent certified party.
ITM does 
not utilize or trade energy in the form of heating and cooling.
It was due to the improved process of energy 
consumption data collection from partners which had not 
reported their energy consumption.
[305-1]
Sistem Perhitungan Berdasarkan Sumber Emisi [305-1][CSS-12.1.5]
Calculation System Based on Emission Sources
Sumber Emisi
Emission Sources
Sistem Perhitungan
Calculation System
Bahan bakar biosolar, solar, dan bensin untuk kendaraan bergerak
Biodiesel, diesel fuel, and gasoline for operational vehicles
Sistem perhitungan beban emisi mengacu Permen LH No.
12 Tahun 2012
Emission loads calculation system refers to Minister of Environment Regulation 
No.
Biomass co-firing at IMM, utilizing wood from production 
forests.
Optimization of the dewatering pump.
Utilization of water energy to drive the turbine of quick 
limes mixer in acid mine drainage management resulted 
in energy savings of 406,529 GJ.
The intensity increase by 17.5% from 2022.
[302-5]
Reduction of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions
GHG emissions generated by ITM's operations include carbon 
dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), and 
hydrofluorocarbon (HFC) emission sources, expressed in units 
of tons CO2eq.
Emission target for scope 1 and scope 2 
based on 2019 base year.
The conversion factor of the global warming potential 
(GWP) value refers to the IPCC AR5.
There are no significant 
changes in emissions that trigger recalculation of emissions 
from the baseline year.
It was influenced 
by the increase in the volume of coal sold and the expansion 
of the scope of the report from official flights which included 
all employees where previously it only included official flights 
from head office employees.
[305-5][CSS-
12.2.3]
In 2023, ITM separated the calculation of emissions from the 
Company and partners.
The accumulated emission calculation 
is presented in a separate table for 2021-2023.
• The types of greenhouse gases calculated in the calculation of greenhouse gas emissions were CO2, CH4, N2O, and HFC.
* 2022 data has not been separated between ITM and partner emissions.
2022 emissions are in the form of total emissions available in the cumulative table of ITM and partner emissions 
** Biogenic emissions in the form of fatty acid methyl ester (FAME) from renewable sources.
• The types of greenhouse gases calculated in the calculation of greenhouse gas emissions are CO2, CH4, N2O, and HFC.
* Biogenic emissions in the form of fatty acid methyl ester (FAME) from renewable sources.
2021 emissions were in the form of total emissions available in the cumulative table of ITM and partner emissions
** Biogenic emissions in the form of fatty acid methyl ester (FAME) from renewable sources.
***Sales volume of coal from own mines
**** Emissions from business travel in 2023 were only based on flights by employees.
* 2021 data has not been separated between ITM and partner emissions.
2021 emissions are in the form of total emissions available in the cumulative table of ITM and partner emissions
** Biogenic emissions in the form of fatty acid methyl ester (FAME) from renewable sources.
***Volume of coal from own mines sold
**** Emissions from business travel in 2023 are only based on flights by employees.
Jumlah Beban Emisi Konvensional
Total Conventional Emission Loads
Jenis Emisi
Emission Type
Satuan
Unit
2023
2022
2021
NOx
Ton
Tons
296.4
452.5
921.5
SOx
27.7
187.3
91.5
CO
54.1
382.8
145.0
Materi Partikulat (PM)
Particulate Matter
46.9
70.6
88.7
Persistent Organic Pollutants (POP)
N/A
N/A
N/A
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC)
N/A
N/A
N/A
Hazardous Air Pollutants (HAP)
N/A
N/A
N/A
Keterangan | Notes: 
ITM tidak mengungkapkan polutan organik yang persisten (POP) sebagai emisi udara yang signifikan  karena tidak relevan dengan karakteristik bisnis Perusahaan
ITM does not disclose persistent organic pollutants (POPs) as significant air emissions as they are not relevant to the characteristics of the Company's business.
[305-6, 305-7] [CSS-
12.4.2]
To control other emissions, such as NOx, SOx, CO, and 
particulates, the company calculates and monitors air quality 
emissions to meet the quality standard threshold set by the 
government.
The total emission loads in 2023 reached 383.6 
tons, decreased by 65% from 2022.
[305-7] 
[CSS-12.4.2]
ITM calculates the combined emission loads of SOx, NOx, 
CO and PM from mobile sources.
Material Topic: Biodiversity and Post-mining
Policy:
•	
ITM-P-HSE-9.2-002 Environmental Policy
•	
HSE Manual on HSE Management Guidelines
Biodiversity management is evaluated through regular assessment and 
reporting mechanisms to the authorities.
The evaluation results in 2023 
showed the achievement of a biodiversity index in the range of 0.4-
2.3.
In the reporting period, ITM continued its commitment to ensure 
reclamation areas are managed in accordance with the requirements of 
environmental documents.
The implementation, monitoring and reporting 
of biodiversity and post-mining performance is the responsibility of the 
Mine Rehabilitation Department.
ITM set the targets in biodiversity and 
post-mining management in the form of biodiversity index achievement, 
plant growth rate, plant health rate, and variety of local plant species in 
the reclamation area.
It can indirectly affect the economic value of biodiversity 
that can be utilized by the community, including the fulfillment of other 
basic rights for the community.
Biodiversity management refers to the mitigation hierarchy steps, 
including rehabilitation activities.
Biodiversity and post-mining management 
is overseen by the Board of Directors.
Beberapa Upaya Pengelolaan Lahan Terganggu [304-2][CSS-12.5.3]
Some Disturbed Land Management Efforts  
Aktivitas Tambang
Mine Activities
Risiko dan Dampak Lingkungan
Environmental Risk and Impact
Mitigasi
Mitigation
Pembukaan Lahan
Land Clearing
 
Peningkatan laju erosi, peningkatan 
sedimentasi, dan penurunan tingkat 
kesuburan tanah.
Increased erosion rate, Increased 
sedimentation and decreased soil fertility.
•	
Placement of topsoil stock in a safe place from erosion.
•	
Plant cover crops to control the drift of topsoil by runoff and 
maintain soil fertility.
•	
Apply mining method of back filling or in pit dump.
Changes in landscape, increased erosion 
rates and sedimentation.
•	
Carry out reclamation by considering the security and stability 
aspects of embankment and land revegetation in accordance with 
the reclamation plan.
•	
Watering the road on the mine site, hauling road, operating 
location of facilities, mining facilities and infrastructure.
Can be restored up to 
the point of replanting 
individual species of 
the family.
ITM does not own, lease, 
and manage any subsurface or underground land.
There are no operating activities 
(offices, production facilities, or 
extractive facilities) adjacent to or in 
areas that are protected or have high 
biodiversity values.
•	
Kanahuang Arboretum: Flora and fauna 
monitoring
H' = 2.8
Sustainability Report 2023 | PT Indo Tambangraya Megah Tbk
55
Upaya Perlindungan Habitat pada Kawasan Dilindungi dan Area Konservasi [304-1][304-3][CSS-12.5.4]
Habitat Protection Efforts in Protected Areas and Conservation Areas
Wilayah Operasi
Operating Area
Wilayah Dilindungi 
dan Luasan
Total Protected Land 
Area
Posisi Wilayah Operasi terhadap 
Wilayah Dilindungi dan Jenis Operasi
Position of Operation Area to Protected 
Area and Type of Operation
Kegiatan Tahun 2023
2023 Activities
Nilai 
Keanekaragaman 
Hayati
Biodiversity Value
BEK Melak
Area konservasi pada 
hutan produksi.
There are no operating activities 
(offices, production facilities, or 
extractive facilities) adjacent to or in 
areas that are protected or have high 
biodiversity values.
•	
Pemanfaatan Area konservasi sebagai 
Sumber Plasma Nutfah
•	
Pengambilan benih dan cabutan alam 
Tanaman Lokal Endemik
•	
Pendokumentasian keragaman Satwa 
liar
•	
Utilization of Conservation Area as 
Germplasm Source
•	
Seed collection and natural extraction 
of Endemic Local Plants
•	
Documentation of wildlife diversity
H' = 3.0 - 3.8
JBG Jorong
Area konservasi 
ekowisata Hutan 
Galam.
[CSS-12.3.4, CSS-12.3.5]
natural forest in the TCM concession area have a high 
biodiversity index value (>3) where 73 plant species are listed 
on the IUCN Red List.
BEK's collaboration with BRIN 
have resulted in a draft of the Kalimantan Local Fruit Diversity 
Book.
This study is planned to continue in 2024.
The 
reclamation area in 2023 reached 630.4 ha, or 81% higher than 
the target of 348.0 ha.
[304-3]
The planting of 546,485 trees in 2023 through revegetation 
activities aimed to be a form of disturbed land management.
The planted trees consisted of local plants and plants that 
have economic value.
The voids that have been covered are then utilized 
for revegetation activities.
ITM has implemented post-mining plan in its entire operations 
(100%).
By 2023, post-mining reclamation has been completed 
at Kitadin Tandung Mayang.
While at Kitadin Embalut site has 
completed 65% of post-mining reclamation.
Until the end of 
the reporting period, the realization of post-mining costs 
amounted to Rp12.5 billion.
The Company has paid up 
 
Post-mining Guarantee of USD36.9 million.
The watershed rehabilitation in the concession area is carried 
out based on the Minister of Forestry Decree No.
ITM is obliged to carry out rehabilitation on 49,310.94 ha of 
watershed area until 2026.
The result of planting on 3,645 ha 
of watershed rehabilitation area has been handed over by 
ITM to the government in 2023.
Mangrove planting and coral reef transplantation have 
been carried out in these areas due to the high abrasion rate 
and the condition of submerged coral islands during high 
tide.
ITM is recognized by the Government as having the commitment and ability to manage 
the land and forests under its responsibility in operating the business.
The installation will cover an area of 
11.5 ha, out of a total land area of 32.5 ha.
ITM-MS-HSE-12.5.3-001
The General Services (GS) and HSEC departments play a role in the 
monitoring and management process.
ITM understands that all types of waste and pollution from the production 
process and its disposal can impact human rights, such as health and 
ecosystems.
We maintain our sediment pond facilities to prevent leakage or collapse.
ITM manages 
waste with the 3R principle (reduce, reuse, recycle) based on 
its type and form started with storage, transfer, and final 
disposal stages in order to reduce disposal and save resources.
Waste data collection and monitoring process is conducted 
through Performance Reporting System (PRS).
[306-1, 306-2]
[CSS-12.6.2, CSS-12.6.3]
Sustainability Report 2023 | PT Indo Tambangraya Megah Tbk
61
ITM has a garbage dump (TPS) for temporary storage of 
hazardous waste.
ITM excludes any external or imported waste for management, 
and there is no incineration with energy recovery, or other 
disposal operations.
All information related to the volume and 
management of hazardous waste can be found in the Appendix 
of this report.
[CSS-12.6.4; 12.6.5; 12.6.6]
To ensure that all rock material can be fully utilized, ITM pays 
attention to the management of overburden for void backfilling.
Material Topic: Water and Effluent
Policy:
•	
Compliance with quality standards for effluent quality
•	
Water conservation through prevention of water loss and water 
recycling
The HSEC department plays a role in monitoring water and effluent 
management performance.
Each year, evaluation is carried out through 
a regular reporting assessment mechanism to the authorities.
[303-1]
Water availability is essential for running the Company’s business 
activities.
The company realizes that the activities can have an impact on 
long-term water availability.
We optimally pursue our commitment to wise 
and responsible water utilization.
Surface water is utilized for mine facilities and vehicles, 
road watering, and stockpile spraying.
• Data excludes NPR, TIS, GPK, Jakarta Office (ITM), Balikpapan (IBO), and Samarinda Office (STSC).
[303-1, 303-2, 
303-4] [CSS-12.7.2, CSS12.7.3, CSS-12.7.5]
Effluent Management
Effluent is treated at the Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) 
and settling ponds before being discharged to water bodies 
or reused.
Treated effluent discharged is ensured to be in 
accordance with regulations and does not exceed quality 
threshold.
Monitoring of other sediment ponds is carried 
out manually by an accredited laboratory.
A total of 287,483 
ML of treated effluent was discharged to the water body.
[303-4]
Laporan Keberlanjutan 2023 | PT Indo Tambangraya Megah Tbk
Responsible Transition for a Greener Future
68
Capaian Tertinggi, Capaian Terendah, dan Rerata Hasil Pengukuran Kualitas Olahan Efluen Tahun 2023
Highest Achievement, Lowest Achievement, and Average Results of Effluent Treatment Quality Measurement 2023
Parameter
Satuan
Unit 
Baku Mutu*
Quality Standard*
Site/Anak Perusahaan
Site/Subsidiary
IMM
JBG
TCM
BEK
KTD-EMB
Rata-rata
Average
Tertinggi
Highest
Terendah
Lowest
Rata-rata
Average
Tertinggi
Highest
Terendah
Lowest
Rata-rata
Average
Tertinggi
Highest
Terendah
Lowest
Rata-rata
Average
Tertinggi
Highest
Terendah
Lowest
Rata-rata
Average
Tertinggi
Highest
Terendah
Lowest
pH
mg/L
6.0-9.0
7.22
8.91
6.19
7.03
8.40
6.17
7.15
7.98
6.30
7.60
8.30
6.20
6.25
7.70
6.20
TSS
</=300
58.97
242.00
1.00
13.95
52.00
2.50
12.88
91.00
0.13
40.85
190.00
5.00
19.88
70.00
0.00
Fe
</= 7.0
0.38
5.76
0.02
0.98
6.59
0.02
0.32
4.00
0.01
0.86
3.90
0.03
0.65
2.20
0.00
Mn
</= 4.0
0.67
3.67
0.02
1.11
3.96
0.02
0.14
3.14
0.00
0.33
2.70
0.01
0.03
0.10
0.00
Cd**
</=0.05
N/A
N/A
N/A
0.01
0.01
0.01
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
Keterangan | Notes:
N/A: Parameter Cd tidak dipersyaratkan pada Peraturan Daerah Kalimantan Timur No.02/2011
*Berdasarkan Peraturan Daerah Kalimantan Timur No.02/2011 dan Peraturan Gubernur Kalimantan Selatan No.36/2000 
**Berdasarkan  Peraturan Daerah Kalimantan Selatan No.04/2008 
N/A: The Cd parameter is not required in the East Kalimantan Regional Regulation No.
02/2011
*Based on East Kalimantan Regional Regulation No.02/2011 and Governor of South Kalimantan No.36/2000.
Strategi pengelolaan 
terdiri dari tiga tahap, yaitu: [CSS-12.7.2]
To ensure that the discharge of treated effluent does not 
affect aquatic habitats, we periodically monitor and calculate 
the biodiversity value in the river body.
During 2023, there were no incidents related to water and 
effluent management that impact the river ecosystem.
[303-1]
[CSS-12.7.2]
Precipitation can affect mine operations, which prompts the 
Company to continuously optimize inlet and outlet drainage 
facilities, including adding water pumps to speed up the 
process of removing water from the pit.
There are 72 sediment 
ponds with a capacity of 13,983,091 m3 to control and treat 
runoff into drainage channels.
AMD management is carried out at mining sites.
Water Recycling and Reusing
ITM recycles water as an efficiency measure.
The results of the performance evaluation in 2023 stated that the 
number of contractors with a red rating on CMS-HSE has decreased.
ITM is concerned about the physical and mental health and safety of 
our employees, who are important assets to support performance in our 
business transition journey.
Organizational & System Pillar
Maintain the implementation of HSEMS through 
OHS policies, HSE Management System, 
Contractor Management System, and Online 
Incident Report.
The 
Mining Safety Management System (MSMS) is implemented 
in accordance with the Minister of Energy and Mineral 
Resources (MEMR) Regulation No.
50 
of 2012 on the Implementation of Occupational Health and 
Safety Management System.
[403-2]
[CSS-12.14.3]
OHS Risk Identification and Management
In efforts to minimize employee safety and health risks and 
establish risk management priorities, ITM maps and identifies 
high-risk jobs.
The supervisor is in charge 
of ensuring that all employees comply with occupational 
safety, and has the authority to stop work if it is deemed to 
endanger the employee's life.
ITM ensures that no sanctions 
are imposed for leaving work for safety reasons.
][CSS-
12.14.3]
We optimize risk management evaluation and improvement 
to reduce potential negative impact occurrences.
The 
Company conducts investigations, then reports to the 
authorities in the event of significant workplace accidents, 
such as fatalities.
In addition, ITM makes proactive 
improvements to prevent accidents from recurring in the 
future.
•	
Penggunaan APD yang sesuai dengan risiko 
yang ditimbulkan
Pencapaian:
100%
 
Mitigation:
•	
Routine watering of hauling roads during the 
dry season
•	
Paving of hauling road
•	
Installing "automatic water sprayer" in coal 
dumping and hauling areas.
•	
Put up a sign of no entry and time of blasting 
activities.
We ensure 
the quality of services provided by regularly evaluating or 
testing the feasibility of infrastructure facilities.
[403-3, 403-8][CSS-12.14.4]
Until the end of 2023, there were 35,554 on-site visits with 
the most common complaint being ARI, with 27,540 of them 
were visits from partners.
Analyzing the results of clinic visits and medical check-ups.
Providing online or offline consultation to monitor health 
conditions.
Presenting health information and conducting health 
talks related to health trends to increase employee 
awareness.
Improving OHS Culture
The Occupational Health & Safety Committee (P2K3) and 
Mining Safety Committee (KKP) are ITM's OHS Committees 
at the business unit management level.
The KKP is led by the 
Head of Mine Engineering and consists of employee members 
representing each department.
The KKP ensures the 
communication of OHS culture and its implementation in 
accordance with applicable regulations.
In 2023, the 
company carried out a significant amount internalization and 
enhancement of the OHS culture and health promotion for 
employees and contractors.
ITM Cup is the company's annual program to promote 
competitiveness in sports.
Sports competitions such as futsal, basketball, 
badminton, table tennis, chess and e-sports
b.
Friday exercises conducted at JBG site involving 
employees and work partners
3.
Providing swimming class
OHS Performance
In 2023, there were 3 cases of incidents resulting in major
injury, involving 1 ITM employee and 2 partner employees.
We regret to 
inform you that there was 1 fatal incident involving a partner 
but the incident was not considered a mine accident based 
on the criteria in the Decree of the Minister of Energy and 
Mineral Resources No.
Laporan Keberlanjutan 2023 | PT Indo Tambangraya Megah Tbk
Responsible Transition for a Greener Future
78
Cedera amputasi pada kontraktor menyebabkan 200 hari 
kerja hilang.
Work accident rate is calculated based on 1,000,000 working hours.
ITM Jakarta Head Office does not have contractors.
There are no other types of workers not included in this disclosure.
Hasil Penilaian CMS-HSE
CMS-HSE Assessment
Emas
Gold
Hijau
Green 
Biru
Blue
Merah
Red
Jumlah
Total
%
Jumlah
Total
%
Jumlah
Total
%
Jumlah
Total
%
3
6.4
16
34.0
25
53.2
3
6.4
Data collection related to protected employees is carried out 
through mapping of sites that have conducted OHSMS audits 
both internally and externally.
Internally audited areas include 
the Jakarta Head Office, sites located in East Kalimantan, 
South Kalimantan and Central Kalimantan.
Contractor Evaluation Through CMS-HSE
ITM is committed to protecting the health and safety of 
contractors and other work partners.
[403-7][CSS-12.14.8]
The Company conducted assessment of a total of 47 
contractors through CMS-HSE.
In 2023, there was a significant 
increase in the number of contractors assessed in ITM’s Melak 
operating area.
ITM issues a 
firm warning and contract renewal evaluation for those with 
red ratings, while black-rated contractors are removed from 
the company’s vendor list.
The Community Engagement and Development Department is 
responsible for community-related performance management while HR-
related management including the organization of annual performance 
appraisal evaluations is the responsibility of the HR Department.
ITM sets 
community development and empowerment (CED) targets with 100% 
implementation achievement in all WIUPs, 80% budget achievement 
with community satisfaction index indicators >76% and Social Return on 
Investment (SROI) >2.0.
The SROI evaluation results in 2023 were 1:3.0 
and IKM 82.9.
In 2023, 2 programs showed a mature level with a score range above 
10.
Topik Material: Ketenagakerjaan, Masyarakat Lokal, Hak Asasi Manusia 
Kebijakan:
•	
Kebijakan Hak Asasi Manusia No: ITM-P-SD-002 
•	
Kebijakan Pengembangan Masyarakat No: ITM-P-CD-001
•	
Kebijakan Sumber Daya Manusia No: ITM-POL-HR-01 (REV.01)
Materials Topics: Employment, Local Communities, Human Rights
Policy:
•	
Human Rights Policy No: ITM-P-SD-002
•	
Community Development Policy No: ITM-P-CD-001
•	
Human Resources Policy No: ITM-POL-HR-01 (REV.01)
Pendekatan Manajemen [3-3][CSS-12.3.1, CSS-12.10.1, CSS-12.11.1, CSS-12.12.1, CSS-12.15.1, CSS-12.16.1, CSS-12.17.1, 
CSS-12.18.1, CSS-12.19.1]  Management Approach
Sumber Daya dan Evaluasi | Resources and Evaluation
Dampak dan Pengelolaan | Impact and Management:
Kebijakan Hak Asasi Manusia
Human Rights Policy
Harmoni Bersama Pekerja 
dan Masyarakat
Harmony with the Employee and Community
Laporan Keberlanjutan 2023 | PT Indo Tambangraya Megah Tbk
Responsible Transition for a Greener Future
82
Pengelolaan SDM mengacu pada Strategi Human Resources 
(HR) yang sejalan dengan semangat Banpu Heart.
In addition, 
management is carried out through a strategic approach, 
which includes an effective HR operating model, corporate 
culture, HR matrix analysis, and readiness of key position 
leaders who meet skill requirements.
Internalization of Banpu 
Heart value is carried out through a series of training activities.
To support our diversity, the 
HR Department is responsible for ensuring all employment-
related activities adhere to human rights principles that support 
diversity and equality.
Our commitment to diversity is 
demonstrated by the absence of discrimation incidents during 
the reporting year.
In 2023, ITM 
did not find or receive any complaints related to discriminatory 
acts.
62% of employees were recruited from locals (point of 
hire in Kalimantan), amounting up to 1,404 workers
2.
There is 1 worker with a disability to carry out work in the 
HR Department
Until 2023, the gender composition of members of the Board 
of Commissioners consisting of 6 men or 75% of total members 
and 2 women or 25%.
A total of 37.5% or 3 members are 
Independent Commissioners who represent the interests of 
minority shareholders and other stakeholders.
Kategori manajemen senior 
This report presents the status of ITM's employees in the 
Jakarta head office, Balikpapan office, and sites.
The local senior 
management category is defined as a Director who is 
Laporan Keberlanjutan 2023 | PT Indo Tambangraya Megah Tbk
Responsible Transition for a Greener Future
84
yang berasal dari tenaga kerja lokal yaitu Direktur yang berasal 
dari Kalimantan.
[2-30, 407-1][CSS-12.18.2]
100%
pekerja dilindungi oleh PKB
workers are protected by the CLA
Serikat Pekerja ITM dan Anak Usaha
Labor Union ITM and Subsidiaries 
ITM dan Anak Usaha
ITM and Subsidiaries
Serikat Pekerja
Labor Union
Peraturan Perusahaan (PP)/Perjanjian Kerja 
Bersama PKB)
Company Regulation (CR)/Collective Labor 
Agreement (CLA)
JBG
SP KEP SPSI PT JBG
CLA
IMM
1.
Penyusunan dan penetapan ITM untuk 
originated from Kalimantan based on ID card.
In addition, employees' rights and obligations are 
governed by the Collective Labor Agreement (CLA), which is 
jointly prepared by the management and employees' 
representatives in the labor union.
The CLA protects all ITM 
employees and other workers who work in the mining business 
license area (WIUP).
[2-30, 407-1]
[CSS-12.18.2]
Remuneration
ITM ensures that all subsidiaries meet the minimum wage 
requirements set by the local government.
The lowest 
remuneration received by the employees are higher than the 
minimum wage applicable in each working area.
The 
percentage ratio of the lowest wage to the minimum wage is 
1.3%.
The formulation and determination of ITM for employees 
Sustainability Report 2023 | PT Indo Tambangraya Megah Tbk
85
pekerja mengacu pada anggaran perusahaan dan peraturan 
perundang-undangan yang berlaku.
[201-3, 404-2][CSS-12.3.3]
refers to the company’s budget and applicable laws and 
regulations.
The amount of remuneration is based on the 
function of the position and achievements, and there is no 
discrimination against gender, race, ethnicity, religion, age, 
cultural background, or disability status of employees.
The 
company pays the pension in accordance with the Minister 
of Manpower Regulation (PMTK), with double the amount 
stated in the PMTK for employees with normal retirement and 
triple the amount for employees at closed mines.
In 2023, 
ITM has earmarked USD27 million for pension and other 
long-term benefits.
The policy is 
stipulated in the Collective Labor Agreement (CLA).
The Human Resources Division established 
a strategic goal to ensure the employees possess the 
appropriate competencies by designing structured and 
systematic development programs.
The function is training 
and development, which is available in each respective 
operational site.
As part of the business transformation stages, the Company 
has created training programs tailored to the functions and 
roles of employees.
In an effort to achieve a meritocratic organization, ITM makes 
clear distinction between high performers and low performers.
ITM established a number of committees from 
regional to central level in order to calibrate employee 
performance to gain objective data on the performance of 
each employee.
All (100%) employees attended 
performance assessment in 2023.
In addition, the Company 
is committed to implementing a meritocracy system by 
improving the system of rewards and punishment to employees 
based on their abilities, aspirations, and involvement.
A total of 
1,247 employees have participated in training program such 
as (but not limited to) significant topics : Awareness & Capacity 
Building on Climate Change, Accounting and Financial 
Modeling for Renewable Energy, CSR Internalization into 
Company Business Activity, Build Your Business Simulation, 
Scrum Master and Product Owner, Agile Business Process 
Management, Basic Operational Excellence, Coal Mining 
Business Acumen Sharing, and other topics which supporting 
Company business.
Laporan Keberlanjutan 2023 | PT Indo Tambangraya Megah Tbk
Responsible Transition for a Greener Future
88
Sustainability Competency Improvement
Competency development is provided to employees to 
support the sustainability performance achievement, the Board 
of Directors and Board of Commissioners in 2023.
Learning and development management coordinate by Human 
Resources Division through respective Learning & Development team 
in each Company's location, both in Head Office and Mine Sites Office.
The activities were carried 
out in 14 districts, covering 53 villages in the WIUP.
In order to create community independence in the post-mining 
period, ITM created 126 community empowerment agendas 
listed in the CDE Master Plan and Mine Closure Plan for each 
site.
•	
Development of clean water supply implemented by all subsidiaries,
•	
Supporting stunting prevention activities through posyandu for infants, pregnant 
women, toddlers and the elderly in all ITM subsidiaries,
•	
Free medical treatment and consultation held in all ITM subsidiaries,
•	
Construction/provision of health infrastructure facilities carried out by all ITM 
subsidiaries.
Site
Dampak
Impact
Pengelolaan Dampak dan Inovasi Sosial
Impact Management and Social Innovation
BEK
Potensial
Potential
Pembukaan lahan akan mengakibatkan erosi dan 
sedimentasi yang akan mempengaruhi kelimpahan 
sumberdaya ikan
Land clearing will result in erosion and sedimentation, 
which will affect the abundance of fish resources.
The total CD budget for 2019-2023 is Rp275,000,000.
Diversification of ecoprint products (Kondang), increase in group income, and product sales partnership 
with the government.
The group income in 2023 was Rp60,665,000.
Starting from an HR program aimed at 
empowering employees' wives, the community proposed for 
this program to be carried out in the JBG fostered area through 
the Community Consultative Forum.
Currently, the Sasirangan 
program has been developed, particularly in Karang Rejo 
Village.
PT JBG assisted the group in registering a patent for eucalyptus 
ecoprint motifs and colors on behalf of the group, which is 
expected to provide added value to the ecoprint program.
Dyeing techniques with plants, procurement of fabric dyeing waste collection basins.
The total CD budget for 2019-2023 of Rp439,553,751.
TCM has 
3 fostered groups located in Besiq Village, Damai District, 
West Kutai Regency.
Sustainability Report 2023 | PT Indo Tambangraya Megah Tbk
97
Women Empowerment through MSME Sewing
To support the community’s  potential and interest, BEK 
established a sewing service household business program 
in Teweh District, particularly in the villages of Benangin 1, 
Benangin 2, and Benangin 5.
In 2023, BEK provided advanced training on pattern making, 
body measurement techniques, and pants pattern making, 
which was attended by 8 tailors.
This program aims to 
empower the fostered village community through the 
development of sewing MSMEs and to increase the 
community’s economic independence.
BEK strives to 
contribute to the achievement of Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs), particularly  goal  number 5 on Gender Equality 
and goal number 8 on Decent Work & Economic Growth.
[CSS-12.9.4]  
Indeks Kepuasan Masyarakat
Community Satisfaction Index
2023
83%
2022
85%
2021
76%
Communication and Community Engagement
Community involvement in the CD program was implemented 
long before before the company operates.
Public consultation 
is conducted at the pre-operation stage to develop the PPM 
Master Plan.
The management of the FKM can be found on the Annual 
Report Community Development.
In addition, the company actively collaborates 
with the government to align ITM's and its subsidiaries' ITM's 
and its subsidiaries' CD programs with local and central 
government programs.
and central government programs.
Grievance and Community Satisfaction Survey
The Company has a Voice of Stakeholders (VoiS) facility to 
receive input and complaints from the community.
As some business 
locations are close to local and indigenous community 
settlements, ITM actively cooperates in the implementation 
of programs that support cultural preservation and encourage 
the improvement of their wellbeing.
During the reporting 
period, there were no incidents or violations of indigenous 
peoples' rights.
[411-1][CSS-12.10.2, CSS-12.11.2, CSS-12.11.3, CSS-
12.11.4]
Our security practices are implemented responsibly, 
harmoniously and fairly.
Their implementation is in line with 
human rights principles, such as security activities by security 
unit (security officers) that collaborate with local police and 
security personnel who are trained to understand human 
rights, including community rights.
All (100%) security personnel 
at head office have attended Businnes and Human Rights 
training.
so that all 
security officers have the knowledge, ability and skills to carry 
out security duties and improve discipline.
The project themes are diverse, ranging from 
women's empowerment, mangrove and beach conservation, and waste 
management.
ITM is demonstrating its commitment to promoting inclusivity by holding 
sign language training for its employees.
The Board of Directors is responsible for the Company's 
operations, while the Board of Commissioners oversees and 
advises the Board of Directors on the Company's business 
activities.
The Board of Directors, with the coordination of the President 
Director as the highest officer, has joint responsibility for the 
implementation of sustainability governance covering 
Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) aspects.
In 
addition, ITM has a Sustainability & Risk Management (S&RM) 
Directorate that is tasked with managing sustainability impacts 
on ESG aspects.
Further information on ITM's governance can be found in the 
2023 Annual Report (https://itmg.co.id/investor/company-
information/annual-report) at page 131.
•	
Foster and raise employees’ awareness about 
sustainability through dissemination activities.
•	
Ensure harmonious relationships with 
stakeholders.
•	
Manage compliance of business and 
operational activities.
•	
Conduct a gap analysis of the maturity of ITM's 
risk management implementation.
As the highest organ in sustainability governance, the 
President Director has has ESG-related key performance 
indicators (KPIs) that have been approved by the Board of 
Commissioners, which account for 30% of the total KPIs.
These 
KPIs include employee engagement scores, regulatory 
violations that impact operations, cybersecurity-related 
incidents, GHG emissions intensity reduction, occupational 
fatalities, and so on.
The SDGNCC is 
responsible to the Board of Commissioners.
[2-26]
More detailed description of the topics below can be viewed 
in the ITM Annual Report 2023 (https://itmg.co.id/investor/
company-information/annual-report) which is complementary 
to this Sustainability Report 2023, can be found in page 131 
- 208:
1.
Tenure of the Board of Directors and Board of 
Commissioners as the highest governance body [2-9]
2.
Nomination and election of the highest governance body 
[2-10]
4.
The role of the highest governance body in overseeing 
the Company's impact management [2-12]
6.
Performance evaluation of the highest governance body 
[2-18]
8.
The Company implements 
a Risk Management Policy and Manual that applies to all ITM 
business units and their supporting functions.
Further information on support for climate change issues is 
available in the Governance Approach to Climate Change 
Issues chapter.
Monitor and calculate level of emissions.
Carry out carbon sequestration efforts through mine 
reclamation, biodiversity conservation, and watershed 
rehabilitation activities, in accordance with the Technical 
Plan that has been determined by the Government.
Physical Risks from Climate Change
Weather changes with conditions, such as long duration of 
high rainfall, has an impact on operational disruption due to 
the risk of floods and landslides.
Laporan Keberlanjutan 2023 | PT Indo Tambangraya Megah Tbk
Responsible Transition for a Greener Future
108
Mitigasi Risiko: 
1.
Regularly monitor water supply and reservoir conditions 
during dry season.
Prepare reservoirs and other water supplies.
Improve the methods of calculating and forecasting in 
extreme weather conditions.
4.	 Review drainage system practices, evaluate and monitor 
water management performance during heavy rainfall 
conditions.
Prepare technical scenarios in conducting the Coal 
shipping process, particularly through rivers during long 
dry conditions (El Nino).
Ensure the Environmental Management System has been 
implemented in all aspects of the company's operating 
activities.
Coordinate and collaborate with all parties related to 
geohydrology studies, to ensure that the mining process 
does not adversely affect groundwater sources and 
surface water conditions.
Realize the Community Development  and Empowerment 
(CDE) program which refers to SDGs and government 
regulations.
Formulate a CDE master plan based on social mapping 
and Community Development (CD) policies that have been 
consulted with the community, government, and ITM 
management.
Complete risk management information is presented on the 
website (www.itmg.co.id) and annual report, which is separate 
from this report, but complementar (https://itmg.co.id/investor/
company-information/annual-report).
[2-12] [2-16]
Direct delivery through periodic meetings, such as town hall 
meetings, gatherings, GMS, public exposes, analyst meetings, 
Corporate Governance Day, and Quarterly Communication 
Day.
During 2023, no critical were reported to the Board of 
Directors.
Corporate Secretary
Internal Audit
Committees Under the 
BOD
Board of Directors
Board of 
Commissioners
Audit and Risk 
Oversight Committee
(AROC)
Sustainable Development, GCG, 
Nomination and Compensation 
Committee (SDGNCC)
Shareholders
President Director
Directors
SDGNCC pada Struktur Tata Kelola Perusahaan
SDGNCC in the Company’s Governance Structure
ITM's commitment to addressing the challenges of climate 
change is reflected in its corporate governance and strategic 
decision-making.
In developing a strategy to mitigate the 
impacts of climate change, ITM considered core elements 
based on the Taskforce for Climate-related Financial 
Disclosure (TCFD) and initiated a study of the International 
Financial Reporting Standards Climate-related Disclosure 
(IFRS S2) framework published by the International 
Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB).
ITM management plays an 
important role in the systematic assessment and effective 
management of climate-related risks and opportunities.
This 
includes continuous monitoring of key metrics, such as carbon 
emissions, resource consumption and integration of renewable 
energy sources.
In addition, management leads the 
development and implementation of strategic initiatives to 
mitigate identified risks and capitalize on opportunities aligned 
with the Company’s commitment to a sustainable future.
This 
proactive approach involves regular evaluation, scenario 
analysis and integration of climate considerations into the 
broader business planning process.
Financial impact refers to the 
impact on profit (EBIT) or cost 
plan.
Strategic impact means 
the impact on the realization 
of the current year's strategic 
objectives.
Based on the results of the 
analysis conducted, the risk 
of regulatory changes is at 
a high impact rating so that 
the estimated loss due to risk 
ranges from 20-30 MUSD.
This 
involves communities, governments and businesses 
to build a mutual understanding of climate risks, 
vulnerabilities and potential adaptation strategies.
Setting the Context: This stage involves describing 
the broader context in which climate risks arise.
This 
includes factors such as changing weather patterns, 
sea level rise and socio-economic considerations, 
Sustainability Report 2023 | PT Indo Tambangraya Megah Tbk
115
perubahan pola cuaca, kenaikan permukaan air laut, 
dan pertimbangan sosio-ekonomi sehingga 
menciptakan landasan yang komprehensif untuk 
strategi manajemen risiko iklim.
creating a comprehensive foundation for climate risk 
management strategies.
c.	 Risk Evaluation: This stage involves evaluating the 
significance of each identified risk in the context of 
climate change.
Prioritization is based on factors such 
as the urgency of mitigation or adaptation efforts, the 
potential economic impact, and the vulnerability of 
the affected region.
Risk Mitigation
The risk mitigation stage involves selecting and 
implementing strategies to modify climate-related risks.
Monitoring and Evaluation
Continuous monitoring and evaluation process is an 
integral part of effective climate change risk management.
Regular risk profile assessments ensure that strategies 
remain relevant and adaptive.
This includes reviewing risk 
management plans, evaluating the effectiveness of 
ongoing climate actions, and identifying arising risks 
associated with changing climate patterns.
These 
registers serve as a consolidated list of identified and 
assessed risks, integrating the results of the climate risk 
management process.
Monitoring climate-related laws and regulations 
(carbonization and GHG emissions).
Setting GHG targets in ITM's operational KPIs.
Improving forecasting and calculation methods for weather 
prediction.
Implementation of Decarbonization Program and Natural 
Capital Solutions.
Additional costs to implement low-carbon process-based 
improvements in the value chain.
Capital expenditure to develop a greener and low-carbon 
business.
Matrix and Targets 
ITM is committed to transparency and accountability in 
addressing climate-related risks and opportunities.
The 
company utilizes a set of matrices aligned with a complete 
strategy and risk management process to assess and manage 
impacts on our operations.
ITM 
annually conducts periodic evaluation of the whistleblowing system as an 
anti-corruption support tool, and reports to the Sustainable Development, 
GCG, Nomination and Remuneration Committee (SDGNCC).
ITM's performance excellence is supported by responsible and 
transparent governance.
ITM has a whistleblowing system (WBS) policy based on the company’s 
core values and in accordance with GCG principles and practices, 
to support the reporting of legal and ethical violations to internal 
authorities.
To raise 
awareness on anti-corruption, the Company promotes this 
value regularly through dissemination.
[415-1] [CSS-12.22.2]
Whistleblowing System
The Company accepts complaints of violations, including 
bribery and corruption.
Management will then follow up on 
the report in accordance with the applicable mechanism, as 
stated on the company's website http://www.itmg.co.id.
Transparency Center (TC) is monitored by the 
Transparency Committee in each work unit.
The Transparency 
Committee is chaired by the President Director and is responsible to the 
Board of Directors.
Fair Business Competition
ITM ensures fair competition by setting selling prices in line 
with Indonesian and global benchmarks.
In the e-procurement digital system, ITM applies the ethical 
business principles of value, transparency, efficiency, 
effectiveness, and accountability.
[CSS-12.20.5]
ITM did not face any allegations of winning competition by 
selling coal below market price during the 2023 reporting 
period.
There were no confirmed legal cases involving 
anticompetitive, anti-trust or monopolistic actions against the 
company or its employees.
Business Continuity Management
ITM minimizes negative impacts by ensuring that mechanisms 
are in place to anticipate and address emergencies or crises 
in the business operations of ITM and its subsidiaries.
In addition, ITM utilizes a Business Continuity Plan (BCP) to 
safeguard employees, ensure safe operations, and support 
community resilience in each of its operational areas.
Material Topics: Technology (Digitalization) and Innovation
Policy:
•	
Information System and Cyber Security Management Standard
•	
Standar Manajemen Program Penyewaan Komputer 
•	
Sustainable Growth through innovation
The Information Technology (IT) Department is responsible for managing 
technology-related 
performance, 
while 
innovation-related 
is 
the 
responsibility of the Digital Center of Excellence (DCOE) and Management 
System and Business Process (MSBP) Department.
Evaluation results in 2023 
Streamlined DCC Learning Program to ITM Innovation Learning and Dual 
Speed IT & infrastructure upgrade.
This aspect is a means to create room for 
further business opportunities and efficiency of ITM's existing core 
business to achieve strategic goals.
Digitalization in 2023 
focused on the continued adoption of technology, focusing 
on automation and a commitment to enhance existing digital 
products, such as MOCA (Mine Operation Collaboration Apps) 
and MMS (Maintenance Management Solutions).
Scrum methodology 
enables the development of prototypes, pilot projects, and 
products that can be realized quickly.
We developed ESG dashboard as an effort to improve ESG 
data governance.
Vulnerability Assessment and Penetration Test for ITM Apps
3.
The 
result of this initiative implementation is a decrease in the 
fuel usage ratio from the previous average of 0.0243 to 
an average of 0.0241, or total reduction of CO2 emissions 
of approximately 191,435 tons.
This project 
has resulted in fuel usage reduction of approximately 984 
thousand liters or total CO2 emissions reduction of 59.71 
tons.
Web-based and mobile geotagging information system 
application for watershed rehabilitation
BEK employees initiated this project on a geotagging 
solution that empowers farmers to improve work 
effectiveness and efficiency.
The project has the potential 
for carbon sequestration of 1.5 tons of CO2/ha calculated 
from 7 Forest Farmer Groups (KTH) as sampling areas.
Materials Topics: 
Economic Performance and Supply Chain Management
Policy:
•	
Supplier Code of Conduct
•	
Tax Policy
The Operations, Finance, Sales & Logistics functions are responsible 
for managing economic performance and supply chain.
Economic 
performance is evaluated through the mechanism of periodic reports 
and achievement of key performance indicators (KPI) targets for the 
Board of Directors and Board of Commissioners.
The results of the 2023 
evaluation represents a positive economic performance, where the coal 
production volume is complied with the set target.
Reliable supply chain management and economic performance support 
ITM's business effectiveness and strengthen the foundation of the 
business to continue creating value and benefits for all stakeholders.
ITM implements a Code of Conduct for suppliers and performs ESG 
assessments to ensure sustainable positive impacts from the company's 
business processes.
This was supported 
by the Company's efforts in controlling production costs and 
implementing responsible cash management.
In addition, we 
maintained the quality of diverse coal calorific values, including 
high calorific values that competitors rarely have.
With this 
quality, the business can generate higher revenue margins 
by reaching out to a wider market, including the premium 
market.
All of the Company's revenues are generated from coal sales 
and ancillary revenue such as bank interest and deposits.
Until  the end of 2023, ITM did not receive any financial 
assistance from the government.
[201-1, 201-4][CSS-12.8.2, CSS-
12.2.2, 12.21.3]
Due to its operations located in Indonesia, ITM pays tax 
obligations to the Indonesian government.
Responsibilities 
for tax payment fulfillment, compliance evaluation process 
and risk mitigation related to ITM's taxation are carried out 
by the Department of Finance by involving stakeholders that 
are the authorized parties in the process of consultation and 
participation related to taxes, including tax consultants and 
tax offices.
During the 
reporting period, there was no disruption in coal production 
and delivery.
[201-2]
Independent public accountant firm has audited the financial 
data in this report.
Note: Audited Consolidated Profit and Loss Statements.
Economic performance cover all subsidiaries; IMM, TCM, BEK, KTD, JBG, TIS, ITMI, IBU, IEU, IBP, TRUST, GEM, NPR, SME, EBP, GPK, CPI, IHP.
Financial information is not presented by country because ITM only operates in Indonesia.
81.4%
Survei Kepuasan Pelanggan Tahun 2023
Customer Satisfication Index (CSI) in 2023
Sangat Puas
Very Satisfied
Quality Assurance and Customer Satisfaction
Customer satisfaction is our top priority.
For this reason, ITM 
continuously maintains the quality of coal products, services 
and communication with all customers.
ITM guarantees that 
(100%) of its products have undergone quality assurance 
processes in accordance with agreed standards and 
specifications, and no products have been recalled.
Due to 
the specificity of coal products, this report does not disclose 
material related information.
[301-1, 301-2, 301-3] [416-1, 416-2]
In 2023, we conducted a customer satisfaction survey to 
determine customers' perception of ITM's products and 
services, to be more optimized in meeting their preferences 
and expectations.
Responsible Supply Chain Management
ITM partners with suppliers in its business processes, and 
implements a Supplier Code of Conduct to support a healthy 
and responsible value chain.
The Company assesses supplier 
performance based on environmental, social and governance 
(ESG) criteria.
By 2023, all suppliers (100%) have been 
evaluated and found no supplier has a negative impact on 
the environment, community, or employees.
[308-1, 308-2, 414-1, 414-2][CSS-12.15.8, 
CSS-12.15.9, CSS-12.16.3, CSS-12.17.3]
We recognize the importance of human rights awareness in 
the Company's value chain.
