As a result, ITM strove to achieve measured operational 
efficiencies to maintain profit margins in the midst of falling average product prices in the global market.
As a 
result, the reduction in ITM’s income was held to approximately 11%.
This 
table refers to economic performance indicators based on the GRI G4 sustainability reporting guidelines.
These reductions resulted from the decreased in average 
sales price.
Construction of a meeting hall in Danau Redan 
village and a Village Office in Sukarahmat village in 
East Kutai.
Operational activities 
contribute indirectly in the form of absorbing local 
labor in the operational area.
This 
means the Company is contributing directly to directly 
generated regional income (PAD).
RELATIONSHIP WITH SUPPLIERS
The Company realizes the importance of the existence 
of parties that act as suppliers to operational 
sustainability.
Positive interaction between the 
Company and its suppliers has a positive effect on the 
company’s performance.
There are approximately 12 mining contractors, both 
large and small, interacting with ITM’s operations at 
this time.
We apply the principle of professionalism 
in our working relationships with all these mining 
contractors.
CMS is a performance-focused 
system implemented in all ITM mine locations with the 
purpose of managing mine contractors consistently 
and comprehensively.
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF MINING
Open coal-mining operations involve a process of 
changing the landscape.
Coal mining operations 
that employ an open-pit method are preceeded by 
clearing the land, then stripping the soil cover to mine 
the seams of coal beneath the layer of overburden.
32/2009 on Environmental 
Protection and Management.
•	
Follow the relevant environmental regulations.
•	
Pursue conservation of the environment through 
sustainable policies”.
25
2013 Sustainability Report
As a form of our commitment to conserving the 
environment, we have implemented a series of 
programs with respect to our basic policy, including:
•	
The implementation of energy-saving operations.
•	
The restoration of biodiversity through 
revegetation.
•	
The preparation of independent mine closure 
communities.
ACCREDITED ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT 
STANDARDS
As proof of our commitment to conducting quality 
environmental management, we run an accredited 
Environmental Management System ISO 14001:2004.
Its aim is to improve the effectiveness of environmental 
management activities, which include environmental 
management systems, environmental auditing, 
environmental performance evaluations and principal 
life-cycle assessments.
The measuring 
of these parameters is carried out by independent, 
competent parties.
ENVIRONMENTAL ORGANISATION STRUCTURE
We have established a Department for Quality, 
Safety and Environment (QSE) as an internal body, 
which is structurally responsible for coordination 
and monitoring compliance with safety, health and 
environmental standards.
In carrying out operational 
activities, each business unit formulates and 
implements work programs in the environmental field 
that are appropriate to the real conditions encountered 
on the ground.
The 
QSE Department then assesses compliance against 
the applicable regulations.
In order to ensure that the 
formulation and implementation of each program is 
carried out both effectively and efficiently, the QSE 
Department places a representative in each work unit.
The topic conducted on in house training included: 
Mine Rehabilitation and Basic Acid Mine Drainage 
(AMD) with 32 participants in 2013.
We carry out land acquisition by applying the 
principle of a consensus agreement in accordance 
with standard operating procedures (SOPs) governing 
the acquisition of land.
Our goal is to obtain a value 
for profit agreement that is acceptable to both sides.
Paying compensation for land and lost crops belonging 
to local communities is carried out by involving local 
officials at the hamlet, village and subdistrict levels.
By employing 
a mechanism that can be received and documented, 
there is no danger of land disputes being triggered 
with local populations relating to land acquisitions.
Realization of Land Clearing and Reclamation
Land clearing plan was realized in 2013 on 1.555,88 Ha of mining concession area of ITM subsidiaries (PT.
Kitadin Tandung Mayang, 
and PT.
In 2013, 903,29 Ha area has been 
revegetated where 465.521 plants was planted and the growth percentage of native plants reached 79%.
Through to the end of 2013, we planted a total number of 311,460 trees on 600 Ha of land.
•	
Building and maintaining erosion control facilities at 
all mining locations.
•	
Developing and employing local plant species and 
other productive crops for revegetation.
•	
Minimising the extent of open mining operations.
•	
Reclaiming mine closure land that has economic 
value.
•	
Developing environmental research and 
development (R&D) in order to determine 
environmental management methods that are 
efficient and effective; and
•	
Preparing reasonable environmental management 
funds through to the cessation of mining activities 
in the form of a Reclamation Guarantee and 
Environmental Provisions.
All environmental management programs are run, 
monitored and evaluated on a regular basis in line with 
the ISO 14001:2004 accreditation system.
This is part of 
our ongoing efforts to improve, with the ultimate aim 
of controlling and minimising environmental impact 
from our mining operations.
Each year, we determine environmental target 
indicators, based on applicable regulations, to measure 
the effectiveness of our environmental management.
In order to fulfil the provisions on maintaining 
the quality of the environment in accordance 
with environmental quality standards (EQS), we 
run environmental management programs that 
cover modified land areas, land clearing and 
reclamation of mined land, crop care, draining slurry 
into sedimentation basins, the making of slurry 
sedimentation basins, seeding and planting, top soil 
management, preventing acid mine drainage (AMD), 
erosion control, research and development, handling 
Hazardous and Toxic Waste Materials, emissions and 
effulents, and implementing community development 
programs (CDC/CS).
21/2008 on 
Stationary Source Emission Standards and Environment 
Ministry Regulation No.
05/2006 on a Motor Vehicle 
Exhaust Emissions Threshold when monitoring 
environmental quality.
These include support 
materials for administrative purposes, such as paper, plastic packaging, printer ink and so on.
•	
Reconditioned conveyors for conveyor belts, and
•	
Reconditioned bearings for bearing replacement.
While the work at harbours of 
loading and unloading for trade purposes continues to 
rise, in line with the increased loading and unloading 
of coal in stockpiles, part of which emanates from coal 
purchases.
Year
Total (kWh)
2012
1,372,755 
2013
9,937 
ITM implement energy concentration through austerity 
measures and efficiency improvement of production 
processes.
The programs and policies 
adopted to save electricity include: 
1.
Improving the quality of the electricity network.
Setting the filling distribution of BBM for heavy 
equipment.
Making absorption pits in our office complexes and settlements.
The impact 
has been positive and during the reporting period, ITM received no reports or complaints concerning any 
disruption to water sources due to a lowering of water levels as a result of water extraction.
Source of CO2 Emission
2012 (ton CO2)
2013 (ton CO2)
Scope 1 (Fuel Usage)
 1,237,915.33 
 1,116,988.08 
Scope 2 (Fuel Usage for Electricity Generation)
 60,651.80 
 59,209.40 
Scope 3 (Electricity Usage)
 2,273.67 
 1,016.75 
Total
 1,300,840.80 
 1,177,214.23 
In order to mitigate the sources of emissions, we regularly carry out emissions tests on production facilities and 
transportation support vehicles both in the field and at our headquarter/branch offices.
The moving object 
emissions test is carried out in accordance with Ministry of Environment Regulation No.
05/2006, while stationary 
objects are tested in accordance with Ministry of Environment Regulation No.
The range of activities that we undertake to mitigate GHG includes:
1.
Combatting fugitive emissions:
•	
Monitoring stationary and mobile emission sources.
•	
Open land to a minimum.
The efforts we undertake to 
reduce dust pollution include:
1.
Watering/spraying the front of a mine when 
excavating and loading coal.
Regularly watering the production roads.
Carrying out revegetation and creating buffer 
zones.
Implementing a dust suppression system at 
stockpiles on a regular basis.
Imposing restrictions on truck loads and speeds.
Undertaking routine care/maintenance of heavy 
equipment to reduce gas pollutants; and
7.
Waste Management and Treatment 
ITM applies the 3R policy in managing and processing 
waste, which comprises: 
1.
Reduce: attempting to reduce the amount of waste 
through operating efficiently.
The different kinds of waste consist of solid waste, 
liquid waste and hazardous and toxic waste.
This is part of our reuse policy.
•	
Solid waste in the form of fly ash originates from 
the coal-fired power plant in the area operated 
by PT Indominco Mandiri.
Total Fly Ash Effluent which are Utilized 
Year
Fly Ash (Kg)
2012
869.91 
2013
                 794 
2.
We hand the remainder over to 
collectors.
All 
these waste substances are stored in temporary 
storage areas specifically for hazardous and 
toxic materials.
18 and No.
85/1999 on the Management of 
Hazardous and Toxic Waste.
We 
carry out a bio-remediation process on 
material tainted with hydrocarbon.
•	
We continually submit balance sheets on 
hazardous and toxic waste to the relevant 
institutions.
General waste
•	
This originates from ITM’s residential and mining 
areas.
•	
We dispose of domestic waste in landfills.
The domestic waste produced is handled 
by relevant departments.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH AND 
DEVELOPMENT
We carry out a number of studies and research that 
contribute to the process of evaluating environmental 
conditions in our mining areas and their environs.
39
2013 Sustainability Report
Environmental Monitoring Activities 2013
Type of Monitoring Activity
Amount of 
Monitoring Point
Frequency of Monitoring Activities by 
Independent parties 
Water quality 
Performed daily by ITM and once a month by 
independent party 
Daily monitoring include measurement of pH and 
water 
a.
Waste water
56
Once a month 
b.
MM2
G4-
EN11
MM5
G4-
DMA
40
Preserving The Environment 
For Sustainability
In line with our holding policy, we apply a concept 
of environmentally-sound mining in carrying out our 
mining activities in our IUP areas.
We implement this 
concept so as to restore the habitat in formerly mined 
areas to its original state.
•	
cultivating plants in our own managed nursery, 
such as the Meranti (Shorea spp.
), Black Orchid 
(Coelogyne pandurata) and so on.
For protected animal, we monitor wildlife on a regular 
basis on former mine land that has been reclaimed.
We apply a benchmark of conservation success by 
proving there has been an increase in the amount of 
wildlife (wild fowl, reptiles and mammals) compared 
to the period before we conducted our environmental 
management program.
We conduct ongoing observations of 
the types of plantlife in accordance with these lists in 
ITM’s mining areas.
In order to prevent the extinction 
of this species, we have developed a rescue and breeding cultivation plan that is supported by by the Purwodadi 
Botanical Garden and the Indonesian Institute of Sciences (LIPI).
Rare Biodiversity Found in Managed Area
Spesies
Genus
IUCN Category 
Aglaia angustifolia
Meliaceae
VU
Dipterocarpus kunstleri
Dipterocarpaceae
CR
Durio dulcis
Bombacaceae
VU
Hopea auriculata
Dipterocarpaceae
EN
Hopea ferrugina
Dipterocarpaceae
CR
Madhuca betis
Sapotaceae
VU
Mangifera rubropetala
Anacardiaceae
EW
Mangifera similis
Anacardiaceae
VU
Saurauia bracteosa
Actinidaceae
VU
Shorea bracteolata
Dipterocarpaceae
EN
Shorea brunnescens
Dipterocarpaceae
EN
Vatica pauciflora
Dipterocarpaceae
EN
EW: Extinct in the wild	 CR: Critically endangered	
EN: Endangered	
VU: Vulnerable
The results of this rescue program show that 550 plant species making up a total of 1,404 varieties were 
successfully acclimatised in the nursery run by PT Indominco Mandiri.
Environmental Grievance Mechanism
Data on complaints from communities is strongly related to levels of compliance.
G4-
EN14
42
Preserving The Environment 
For Sustainability
Percentage of Compliance level vs 
Monitoring Amount - 2012 and 2013
100
2,360
2012
2013
Degree of compliance
Number of Monitoring (Number of compliance point x 
parameter x 12 months)
100
2,683
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND 
CONSERVATION COSTS
As management commitment to the environment 
and mine closure we have allocated funding as 
provision for managing and monitoring activities for 
each unit of tonnage of coal that we produced.
Total Environmental Costs
 2012 & 2013 (USD)
7,328,594
Total
Environment 
Costs
2012
2013
10,091,328
The amount of environmental commission allocated to 
each site was:
1.
A total amount of USD 22,786,674.91 through until 
2013.
Total Provision  2012 and 2013 (USD)
18,607,578
2012
2013
22,786,674
MINE PLANNING AND MINE CLOSURE 
IMPLEMENTATION
In the process of land clearing and reclaiming mine 
areas, we have complied with all the provisions 
contained in Law No.
18/2008 issued by the Minister of Energy and 
Mineral Resources and Government Regulation 
No.78/2010 for reclamation and mine closure, which 
stipulate
1.
Have a license to operate.
Provide reclamation and post-mining operation 
plan.
Report the progress of reclamation regularly.
We are fully 
committed to realising our program of revegetation in 
all managed areas, both fixed and temporary.
G4-
EN31
MM10
G4-
DMA
43
2013 Sustainability Report
Revegetation and Rehabilitation
We integrate all aspects of mining from planning to 
mine closure.
We carry out mine closure land restoration 
in stages, which include:  
1.
Restoring land by replanting mine closure land and 
plant conservation.
Revegetating cover crops to reduce erosion.
Revegetating pioneer species to form canopies.
The average number of plant 
seedlings purchased in a year is 149,935.
In preparing a mine closure, we compile 
documents on a mine closure plan that consists of planning mine closure activities, including environmental 
management and community empowerment.
The cultivation of Buras Super Chickens and Queen Ducks.
Demonstration plots for Dragon Fruit orchards, and   
3.
The legality of the mine closure area.
The re-allocation of labour.
Environmental management and monitoring after the mine closure; and
4.
Drawing up estimates of the mine closure costs.
AWARDS
All these efforts that we have implemented due to our strong commitment to environmental protection have 
resulted in the company winning a number of awards for environmental management, which include: 
•	
Indonesian Green Awards 2013, organized by Majalah Bisnis dan CSR in Collaboration with Ministry of 
Forestry and Ministry of Industrial.
To demonstrate our commitment to the 
implementation of safe mining activities, ITM has 
established an OHS policy, which asserts that.
Zero accidents that result in the loss of working days.
In order to improve OHS management and to ensure 
that all work procedures carried out prioritise the 
different aspects of OHS, ITM integrates the units and 
operational aspects of OHS management into an ITM-
OHS management system.
The member of OHS Committee consists of 
representatives of employees in each unit.
The obligation of all parties (employees and the 
company) to uphold and comply with all OHS 
requirements are emphasised in articles contained in the 
Collective Labour Agreement (PKB), such as Article 12 (in 
the PT Kitadin PKB) and Articles 34-35 (in the 
PT Indominco PKB), which is a form of agreement 
between the company and its employees.
ITM routinely carries out OHS Committee meetings, 
both with relevant work units and with work/mining 
contractor partners.
The aim is to remind all parties to 
continually adhere to all OHS provisions.
To anticipate and overcome the risk of work accidents 
and, further, to support business continuity, ITM has 
established an Emergency Response Team (ERT) at each 
of its subsidiaries.
The ERTs are coordinated by the QSE 
Department.
These teams have been trained by the National Search 
and Rescue Agency (BASARNAS).
•	
The evaluation of the Contractor Management 
System related to fulfilling OHS aspects in mining 
operations.
•	
Standardisation training or HR certification on OHS.
•	
Inspection accompanied by improving the condition 
of OHS apparatus and other standard OHS 
equipment at all operational mine sites.
OHS Performance Statistics 2013
In general, based on the incident severity rate (ISR) and 
incident frequency rate (IFR), safety performance in 2013 
fell from the year before, due to an 83% increase in the 
number of major accidents and a 33% increase in minor 
accidents compared to 2012.
The IFR at 
all sites experienced an increase, as a result of an increasing number of lost time injury (LTI) cases, which rose by 67%.
For the year 2013 ISR was 208.658 (has 
decreased 3% compared to 2012) and IFR was 0.29 (has increased 50% compared to 2012).
The management of occupational health of a medical nature is coordinated by ITM, the activities of which include:
•	
employee health screening, including:
•	
Pre-employee medical check-up.
In 2013, all ITM employees 
underwent periodic health examinations.
•	
Spesific medical check-up.
The management of occupational health that relates to a healthy work environment is carried out by each work unit.
The activities undertaken include: 
•	
Measuring work environment parameters.
•	
Monitoring sanitation in the cooking areas of all food and catering suppliers, and
•	
Promoting employee health.
ITM’s operational 
activities all coincide with the interest of the local 
communities.
We place our 
emphasis on the communities living adjacent to our 
operational areas (Ring I), making them our priority.
•	
Integrity
Our Community Development initiatives serve as 
proof of our sustainable business success in the ITM 
Group.
•	
Care
ITM is fully responsible for all its duties and duties 
related to Community; Development.
7/2007 on the 4M (Mission, 
Manpower, Money, Management) principles, as 
detailed below:
•	
Mission
1.
Implementation of CSR project and CDs 
is intended to gain recognition in terms 
of standardization, both domestic and 
international standards in order to increase 
aspects of the operation in order to accepted by 
the community.
Conduct regular training for CDO and other 
relevant employees.
Organize an annual CDO forum involving 
all sites, as a venue for sharing perspectives, 
experiences and lessons learned.
CDO recruitment at ITM is carried out in a 
transparent and professional manner, where no 
personal interest is accommodated.
This is to ensure that all programs are 
carried out as efficiently as possible.
And to ensure the correct alignment of our 
community development programs with our long-term 
development goal, we pay close attention to the 
recommendations stipulated in the Environmental 
Impacts Analysis (AMDAL) documentation and the 
government-endorsed Millennium Development 
Goals (MDG).
This mechanism encourages the involvement of the 
government and surrounding communities.
Environmental Protection
Aimed at improving the communities’ awareness on 
the importance of preserving the natural state of 
their surroundings.
Community Relations
Aimed at ensuring that ITM shares the same 
perception with the communities and other relevant 
stakeholders.
local economy, education, healthcare, environment, 
community relations, and infrastructure development.
We have devised a program to supervise and monitor 
the progress of our community development programs, 
both quantitatively and qualitatively.
Progress reports 
are submitted electronically to an online network 
called the Community Development Management 
Information System (CDMIS), which collects and tracks 
the latest developments and progress from each of 
our operational sites.
Currently, this system has been 
implemented at PT Trubaindo Coal Mining and PT 
Jorong Barutama Greston.
This system assists the CD 
officers in preparing their monthly activity reports.
With this, it is hoped that 
in the future the programs will be enhanced, a clear 
reflection of the PDCA (Plan–Do–Check–Action) system, 
which is espoused by ITM for its business development.
PT Indominco Mandiri
As coal production from PT Indominco Mandiri is the 
largest contributor to ITM’s current total coal output, 
the budget for PT Indominco Mandiri’s CD programs 
remains the biggest compared to that of other 
subsidiaries.
PT Indominco Mandiri operates in 3 regencies, 
with 4 subdistricts and 10 partnership villages.
The number of trees cultivated by the farmers in 
Nyerakat Kiri Village was up from 2,000 trees to 6,000 
trees, with production volume rising from 3 tons of 
golden melon to a staggering 11 tons.
In addition, the 
number of watermelon trees cultivated by the farmers’ 
collective in Bontang Lestari rose from 4,000 trees to 
7,000, with yield up from 4 tons to 9 tons.
PT Indominco Mandiri developed snack products 
that are characteristic of its partnership villages.
The Community Learning Center (CLC) program of PT Indominco Mandiri, which initially was developed as 
Malahing CLC, was expanded into Damai Mandiri CLC established in Suka Damai.
The program, which gained 
support from the Director General of PAUDNI at the Ministry of National Education of the Republic of Indonesia, 
has successfully improved the locals’ potentials in socioeconomic and cultural terms.
This program marries formal 
education with creative activities, training, and understanding of local wisdoms, including women empowerment 
and entrepreneurship.
ITM supports the development of golden melon cultivation by providing the 
high-quality seeds, providing training, comparative studies, and guidance 
to the farmers’ collective.
The 
availability of golden melons in the market all year long has successfully 
reduced the locals’ dependence on supply from Java.
The oyster mushroom cultivation, for which the market 
potential in Tanah Laut remains huge, has received the 
focus for development through ITM’s collaboration with 
Nurul Hijrah Islamic Boarding School in Alur Village.
Initially this program was launched in the village of 
Jorong in 2012.
Its production capacity in 2013 was 
1 million tons, and its budget for CD programs in 
2013 was Rp1 billion.
For its 
chicken coop program in 2013 PT Kitadin Embalut 
received the Gelar Karya Pemberdayaan Masyarakat 
(GKPM) Award from the Ministry of Public Welfare.
The number 
of woven fish traps in 2013 reached 1,495 units.
• 	 Location Tandung Mayang
PT Kitadin Tandung Mayang is located in Kutai Timur and has a coverage area for community development 
that is similar to that of PT Indominco Mandiri, i.e.
In addition, the supply of feedstuff for these ducks in Teluk Pandan Village is abundant.
In the subsequent years, the number of farmers’ 
collectives grew and began to attract other farmers (those who are not under 
the nurture of the subsidiary) in 2009-2010.
62
Building Prosperous 
Communities
infrastructure, health and education.
Some of the long-term impact programs undertaken by the CD team of PT Trubaindo Coal Mining are watermelon 
cultivation and freshwater fishery in floating nets.
Based on the evaluation of the CCC and the CD officer, it has 
been revealed that there is a huge demand for watermelon in Kutai Barat area.
In developing this watermelon cultivation program, PT Trubaindo Coal Mining 
maintains a cooperation with the related governmental institution, Disbuntakan Kutai Barat, especially for the 
training and monitoring by the designated field officers.
An open market and a huge potential in fishing have made this program a highlight 
of PT Trubaindo Coal Mining’s Community Development initiatives.
Fund alocated for its CD programs in 2013 reached Rp1.35 billion.
The largest 
proportion was allocated for education, totaling Rp578 million (44%).
The memorandum of 
understanding for this program was signed by both parties on 23 November 2013.
Handling coal requires a large area and heavy equipment 
for its transportation.
In line with general practices, we do not specifically package 
the coal.
Product Management and Quality Control 
ITM applies Coal Handling Procedures as a standard 
procedure to maintain product, involving recording coal 
quality, stockpiling, blending and loading.
The Company 
handles coal in accordance with ISO 9001:2008 Quality 
Management Standards to ensure the quality and supply of 
coal to the consumer.
•	
Quality control 
The company maintains the quality of its production 
through a tight quality control mechanism at each 
stage of production.
The quality control process is 
based on the ISO 9001:2008 Quality Management 
Standards.
The Company has a quality control policy and 
complies with all relevant rules and legislation to 
satisfy customer demand.
CUSTOMER SERVICE 
ITM has developed a Customer Complaint Center to 
receive questions and complaints from the public and 
from customers.
Both of these have a significant influence on the 
growth of sustainable business performance.
The Company has made this complaint service available by 
phone, email and letter.
Broadly speaking, the meetings discuss the supply 
chain performance, such as sales targets, production targets, 
transporting targets and quality targets.
The 
purpose is, to ensure that similar problems do not occur in 
the future.
Continuous Buy during 2009-2013.
No Loss in any year during 2009-2013.
≥ 1 M Gross Profit USD/Yr (Average 5 Years).
In 2012, about 9 companies received platinum 
and the gold criteria received by 29 companies.
In 2013 the 
Gold received by 14 companies and the Gold received by 
24 companies.
ITM has a marketing approach that builds a common 
perception on the benefit of mutually beneficial, long-term 
relationships.
Through this intensive approach, the Company’s total coal 
sales volume in 2013 was successfully increased by 6.9% to 
29.1 million tons, up from 2012 sales of 27.2 million tons.
These sales consisted on 3.2 million tons on the domestic 
market and exports of 25.9 million tons.
To support and improve the effectiveness of marketing, 
ITM holds an Evaluation Meeting and involves all parts of 
the production and sales supply chain on a routine basis.
To the date of this report, there 
has been no violation of this agreement.
FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS RESULTING FROM 
CLIMATE CHANGE 
ITM realizes there are financial implications from climate 
change for the company’s business.
ITM has responded to global climate change concerns by 
constructing Mulut Tambang (mine mouth) steam-driven 
power plant.
With the development of this power plant, the 
CO2 resulting from coal transportation during the production 
process can be minimized.
The practice of GCG strengthens a company’s internal conditions, improves performance, improves 
risk management and, finally, enhances its reputation as a winning company.
An EGMS is held as 
and when needed.
The GMS is a forum in which shareholders act on an 
equal footing to make important decisions relating 
to capital that has been invested in the company.
As with the GMS, 
all shareholders – both major and minor - occupy 
positions of equal standing.
POSITION OF BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS AND 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
As company executives, the Board of Commissioners 
and the Board of Directors have differing duties and 
authorities that are appropriate to their respective 
functions, as stipulated in the Articles of Association 
and applicable legislation.
The Board of Commissioners 
(BoC) acts as a supervisor and monitor of the 
implementation of all GMS decisions, while the Board 
of Directors (BoD) acts as the executor of all those GMS 
decisions.
Both entities have fiduciary responsibility.
Members of both the Board of Commissioners 
and Board of Directors are elected, appointed and 
dismissed by the GMS.
The election of Board of 
Commissioners and Board of Directors members is 
preceded by an eligibility test and a competence test in 
all areas, including social, economic and environmental 
fields, which are carried out by an internal team that is 
specially formed for the purpose and is independent.
Recommendations produced by this internal team are 
submitted to the GMS for voting and decision-making.
The evaluation basically covers the 
company’s performance parameters achieved in social, 
economic and environmental areas.
The performance evaluation parameters, or KPI, are 
reviewed and set against each individual operational 
period or term in office, and are accounted for at the 
GMS.
Tax liabilities on 
the BoC and BoD annual bonuses are borne by each 
member.
ITM assigns the Corporate Governance, Nomination 
and Compensation Committee to draw up 
recommendations for the remuneration of members 
of the BoC and BoD.
Tasks and Responsibilities of the Board of 
Commissioners.
Provisions on the Composition and Tenure of the 
Board of Commissioners.
Provisions on the Independence of Commissioners.
Function, Position and Requirements of 
Independent Commissioners in the Composition of 
the BoC.
In carrying out its supervisory duties, the BoC submits 
an accountability report on the performance of the 
Board of Directors relating to the latter’s execution of 
the company’s management.
The BoC’s Accountability 
Report will be reflected in the approval of the 
Annual Report and endorsement of the company’s 
financial statements by the Annua General Meeting 
of Shareholders AGM.
AGM approval of the 
annual report and the company’s financial statements 
will completely exempt members of the Board of 
Commissioners as long as their actions are reflected in 
the annual report.
These committees are the Audit 
Committee and the Corporate Governance, Nomination 
and Compensation Committee.
A complete description 
of the functions and duties of each of these committees 
can be found in ITM’s Annual Report 2013.
In executing its tasks, authority and day-to-day 
responsibilities, ITM’s BoD is guided by the Board 
of Directors’ Charter of 2009, which was updated in 
2011.
Tasks and Responsibilities of the Board of Directors.
Provisions on the Composition and Tenure of the 
Board of Directors.
Provisions on the Independence of Directors.
Function, Position and  Functional Tasks in the 
Composition of the BoD.
In each period of the implementation of its operational duties, the Board of Directors submits to the AGM an 
accountability report in the form of an annual report that includes operational activities, covering performance 
achievement in economic, social and environmental areas, the implementation of GCG and the company’s financial 
statements for approval and ratification.
The BoD’s accountability report will be reflected by the AGM’ approval 
of the annual report and company financial statements, which will exempt members of the BoD as long as their 
actions are reflected in the annual report.
•	
Conflcts of interest
Members of the BoC and BoD who have a potential 
conflict of interest concerning a particular issue are 
asked to leave meetings when the issue in question 
is being discussed.
Increases in 
allowances and general incentives are appropriate to 
the basic wage of each position category.
Internal Supervision and Control
ITM is developing an internal control system that can 
function effectively to safeguard company investments 
and assets from irregularities.
The entities responsible 
G4-56
85
2013 Sustainability Report
for internal supervision and control are the Internal 
Audit (SAI) and the External Auditor.
In order to increase the capacity of SAI staff, they are 
included in training and competence enhancement 
programs on a regular basis so that their knowledge 
and expertise continues to improve.
This reflects ITM’s 
efforts to equate itself with international-standard 
practices.
Risk Management 
ITM is developing an integrated risk management 
system at the corporate level by including each work 
unit.
ITM’s Risk Management process is structured, 
systematic and repeated to improve the performance 
of the company’s risk management, which is sustained 
by a working focus to further increase the intensity 
and quality of risk management to guarantee ITM’s 
continuing business and improved performance.
In 2013, these activities 
included: 
1.	 implemented a Corporate Governance (CG) writing 
competition.
5.	 conducted a survey to measure CG understanding.
6.	 published CG Tips on the company’s intranet; and
7.	 supplied a CG portal.
All of ITM’s Commissioners, Directors and employees 
are required to comply with the Company’s Code of 
Conduct to ensure the execution of fair and balanced 
relations with all stakeholders.
All levels of ITM employees are 
required to do their utmost to develop the business 
while creating valuable investment returns for the 
shareholders in a sustainable manner.
Anti-bribery and Anticorruption 
Employees at all levels of ITM have a commitment 
to conduct business honestly and ethically, and acts 
of corruption and bribery will not be tolerated, as 
stipulated in the code of conduct guidelines on anti-
87
2013 Sustainability Report
bribery and the banning of accepting gifts, gratuities 
and entertainment.
WHISTLE-BLOWING SYSTEM
Aware of the importance of having a whistle-blowing 
system to support the implementation of GCG practice 
in the company, ITM formulated a Whistle-Blowing 
Policy and System (WBS) in 2011.
This medium was launched on September 9, 2013.
Due to the importance of such 
cooperation, ITM supports the activities of the Labour 
Unions and regular communication in the Bipartite 
Cooperation Agency (LKS).
This mutually supportive relationship is manifested in 
the points in the agreement and rules contained in the 
Collective Labour Agreement (PKB), which is regularly 
reviewed and updated and is signed by the Labour 
Unions and Management of each company.
With the PKB and PP
, employees’ rights and obligations 
in relation to the company are clear and guaranteed, 
while the documents cover issues such as:  
•	
The certainty of rights and obligations of both the 
Company and Employees, including: the pattern of 
work relations, terms and conditions of employment 
and Company rules.
•	
The setting of dispute settlement, delivery of 
opinions and deliberation procedures.
•	
The setting of employment termination and 
retirement incentives.
•	
Setting remuneration scales and work benefits.
•	
PP for the period February 2013-2015 for PT.
•	
PKB for the period July 2013-2015 for PT.
•	
PKB for the period July 2013-2015 for PT.
•	
PKB for the period September 2012 – August 2014 
for PT.
•	
PKB for the period  March 2012–2014 for PT.
This 
guaranteed freedom for employees to form a 
Labour Union is contained in Law No.
Kitadin (Embalut) Work Unit Board of the 
Chemical, Energy and Mining Workers Union 
Federation (PUK FSP KEP).
Kitadin Tandung Mayang Commissariat 
Board of the Energy and Mining Federation-
Indonesian Prosperity Union (PK FPE-SBSI).
Indominco Mandiri
•	
Indominco Mandiri Commissariat Board of the 
Indonesian Prosperity Union (PK SBSI).
Jorong Barutama Greston PUK Chemical, 
Energy and Mining Workers Union All-Indonesia 
Workers Union (SPSI).
The forms and mechanisms of support offered 
by the Company to the Labour Unions and their 
leaders are organised and guaranteed in the PKBs, 
which are signed by representatives from the 
Labour Unions and those from the Company.
The Company 
endeavours to establish a physical and mental 
environment surrounding work activities that is 
conducive to a positive work atmosphere.
Total Number of Company Employees who entered 
retirement/resigned/chose early retirement.
During the 
reporting period, there was an employee turnover rate 
of 8.0%, with a total of 258 employees (215 men and 
43 women) leaving the company.
Working Hours and Significant Operational 
Changes
ITM applies limits on employee working hours so 
as not to exploit the workforce, bearing in mind 
the areas and nature of the work.
In accordance 
with the nature of the business, which demands 
consistency in delivering to consumers, the 
Company puts into effect regular working hours, 
shift work and special working hours for the 
execution of work in specific areas.
In terms of workforce remuneration, the Company 
does not differentiate on the basis of gender 
between male and female employees.
Prevention of Child Labour and Prohibition of Forced Labour
ITM pays great attention to the prevention of child labour.
The minimum age requirement for prospective 
employees with ITM is 18.
It is adhered to and 
monitored closely, with the result that during the reporting period, no minors were employed by the ITM Group 
or by our mining partners.
Shifts are adapted to conditions encountered 
in the field, comprising 2 to 3 shifts a day, while excessive work hours are calculated as overtime as contained 
in the PKB and in accordance with the Law.
Likewise, no refusals were lodged by these communities concerning ITM’s operational activities.
We do not set percentage limits on the number of employees based on gender.
In accordance with the nature of 
the work involved in mining, the number of women employees is smaller than that of men.
Most of our women 
employees work in administration and areas that support the field operations.
G4-10
95
2013 Sustainability Report
Management of Competence AND CAREER 
DEVELOPMENT
Considering that HR are a company’s business partner 
in achieving its long-term goals and is, at the same time, 
a stakeholder that plays a central role in supporting 
the successful attainment of those goals, we have 
developed a management system that incorporates both 
these HR roles.
The structure of ITM’s HR management is an 
organisational structure that reflects a clear chain of 
command while, at the same time, reflecting the links 
between employees as part of the organisation in light 
of their respective responsibilities.
This entire system 
is designed to ensure that ITM’s HR are the company’s 
business partner in achieving the company’s aims and 
realising its vision and mission.
The final results of this program 
were presented before field management personnel, 
Headquarters Office Management and Directors at the 
beginning of March 2014.
If all the requirements and 
selection critera are met, ITM prioritises the enrollment 
of prospective employees from local areas.
Technical knowledge and continual improvement is 
stressed for both professional and operational staff.
So as to offer a training program that is directional, 
structured and systematic, ITM has compiled 
a Technical Training Roadmap to ensure the 
implementation of a training program that is in line 
with the career management system.
The training 
modules for the Technical Training Roadmap are 
created with the involvement of the company’s 
internal resources so as to produce training material 
appropriate to the company’s operations, which can 
then be implemented in daily work.
The total number of training hours reached 
22,824 for male participants and 3,763 for women 
participants.
Follow-up 
assessments on performance and competence feed 
into the planning and implementation of development 
programs, rotations, transfers and promotions.
In 
2013, ITM measured the competence of 844 employees.
Training Method
72%
19%
2%
4%
3%
Seminar
Training
Workshop
Certified
Training & Education
Career Path Equality
ITM guarantees equal opportunities for all its employees 
in developing their careers, in accordance with its 
development efforts.
The consistent application of the 
principle of equality at all levels in the organisation 
prevents any case of discrimination on the basis of 
ethnicity, race, religion, gender or political affiliation.
All employees can accept the decisions of their Bosses 
to place them in particular roles or positions, as these 
decisions are based on data detailing competence and 
ITM’s predetermined criteria.
BENEFITS PACKAGE
The Company applies competitive salary standards 
that are in line with its financial capability.
Salary differences are not ascertained by differences in gender; they are based solely on an 
individual’s position, performance and length of service.
Work Area
Wage and Remuneration Ratio
2013
Wage and remuneration ratio of the highest-level and lowest-level 
employees.
189 : 1
Work Area
Wage and Remuneration Ratio Based on Gender
2013
Wage ratio between highest-level male employees and highest-level 
women employees.
3.57 : 1
Wage ratio between lowest-level male employees and lowest-level wom-
en employees.
ITM participates in the Seniors’ Security (JHT) program run by 
PT.
Jamsostek, in which ITM contributes 3.7% and each employee 2%.
In addition, ITM offers awards to employees who 
fulfil the 5S (Seiri, Seiton, Seiso, Seiketsu & Shitsuke 
– Organised, Tidy, Neat, Clean & Disciplined) 
standards, with a competition held once a year.
•	
Employee of the Year.
ENHANCING CORPORATE CULTURE
The work culture at ITM comprises the Company’s values 
(Innovation, Integrity, Care, Synergy) and is commonly 
referred to as Banpu Spirit.
The Banpu Spirit Corporate Culture emphasises the 
importance of employee motivation and performance.
• Campaigns and the making of banners, posters, 
pocket books, screen savers, magazines and so on.
