This report contains materials on the fulfillment of 
sustainability responsibilities including economic, 
environmental, and social aspects, in the period January 1st, 
2013 to December 31st 2013.
This report is a continuation 
of the 2012 Sustainability Report, which was published in 
November 2013.
The 
collected information has been approved by the Board of 
Directors as the Company’s corporate governance officers 
responsible for the preparation and publication of this 
report.
[G4-17, G4-48] 
The 2013 Sustainability Report has been prepared with 
reference to the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (SRG) 
G4, issued by the Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI), and is 
complemented with Metal and Mining Sector Supplement 
(MMSS).
Due to these changes, we only 
reported quantitative data of 2012 from similar information 
as a comparison.
In some parts of this report, we included 
restatements on information in the previous report as 
adjustments to the SRG G4.
We only present 
information for indicators relevant to the 2013 work 
program on each material aspect.
The scope 
of supplier information 
presented in this 
report, include 
occupational 
safety training, 
development 
program, energy 
consumption and the 
engagement of local 
suppliers.
3 of 2012 on the establishment of a team in 
charge of evaluating the Mineral Contract of Work and Coal 
Contract of Work.
The production was successfully maximized as the 
Company managed to maintain the stable supply of raw 
materials.
This included maintaining mining activities at 
the North Anoa 99C pit area located under high voltage 
transmission line (SUTT), with the production plan 
proportion at 30% of total nickel ore production target.
We realize that the challenges in the coming years will not 
be any lighter than that faced during 2013.
Happy reading this 2013 
Sustainability Report and we welcome any constructive 
feedback to improve our sustainability performance 
through this sustainability reporting.
Total production 
of nickel in matte in 2013 reached 75,802 tons, up 7% 
compared to production in 2012 of 70,717 tons.
During 2013, 
total raw materials in the form of lateritic nickel ores 
reached 13,070,625 wet metric tons (WMT), an increase 
from 11,863,372 WMT in 2012.
By the end of the 
reporting period, the estimated proven reserves were 94.2 
metric tons with 1.81% nickel.
Size of the Contract of Work area; 
2.
Term and form of Contract of Work extension; 
3.
Financial obligations (royalties and taxes); 
4.
Domestic processing and refining obligations; 
5.
The mine site is Anoa North 99C pit, with the 
proportion of production plans is 30% of the total nickel 
ore production target.
The team 
involved parties who have the technical competence in 
Laporan Keberlanjutan 2014
Mengelola Produksi, Menjaga Pertumbuhan
20
tambang, operasional tambang, keselamatan kerja 
tambang, kelistrikan, dan rekayasa sipil.
The results of the study were consulted and 
presented before the Ministry of Energy and Mineral 
Resources (ESDM) team.
This is in 
accordance with the Regulation of the Minister of Mines 
and Energy No.
At the vertical clearance, 
mining is believed can be safely carried out under high 
voltage power conductor.
Mining activities are carried out with regard to other 
technical matters, including: 
1.
Operational assessment, to control potential hazards at 
the time of mining realization.
This 
is of course partly offset the decreasing revenue due to the 
decline in nickel prices in the world market.
The figure increased 8% compared to 71,379 tons in 
2012.
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND
SAFETY (OHS)
The efforts of production optimization and efficiency 
during 2013 were conducted while complying with 
occupational safety and health (OHS) principles.
Fulfillment of OHS aspect is an important part in the 
Collective Labor Agreement (CLA), considering the 
Company’s activities in lateritic nickel ore mining and 
production of nickel in matte have a high risk of accidents.
OHS education and training.
Provision of rest /dining area, shower and lavatory.
Canteen quality improvement to comply with health standards.
The committees consisted of a committee that oversees 
occupational safety with 62 members, and the committee 
in charge of occupational health with 89 members.
• 
Gold Award (Aditama) from the Ministry of Energy 
and Mineral Resources for mining environmental 
management.
• 
We ensure the availability of funds to support any 
program or activity of maintenance, rehabilitation 
and preservation of the environment.
The 
CCP implementation is described in other part of this 
report.
The average monthly rainfall was 315 mm.
This was higher 
than the monthly rainfall of 226 mm in 2012, or 30-year 
cycle rainfall of 251 mm.
[G4-EC2] 
The high rainfall affected the quality of mine water runoff 
due to increased content of total suspended solids (TSS).
Monitoring results showed that TSS content that has 
been treated in Sorowako area did not exceed the quality 
standard threshold.
Through this technology, the solids will settle to 
the bottom of the pond and form sludge material.
The results of a small-scale study have shown that 
the LGS system has been effective in lowering TSS of above 
300 ppm.
In the future, the operation of LGS system for mine water 
treatment facility will be combined with conventional 
sedimentation pond in Pakalangkai and Rante.
In general, the energy consumption in 2013 increased 
compared to 2012, due to higher nickel in matte 
production.
The amount 
of energy intensity in 2013 was 120.98 GJ/ton, an increase 
over 118.31 GJ/ton in 2012.
• 
High speed diesel (HSD) for the operation of mining 
heavy equipment and thermal power plants.
CCP is the Company’s attempt to replace HSFO with coal 
as the energy source in rotary dryers and reduction kiln.
In 
addition, our other consideration is the high sulfur content 
of HSFO that can affect the rate of SO2 emissions.
COAL CONVERSION IMPACT
ON SO2 EMISSIONS
HSFO conversion to coal not only does provide benefits 
in terms of cost reduction.
We realize that total conversion of HSFO to coal requires 
a relatively long time and phases.
The measurement is carried out by an external accredited 
laboratory, in which all parameters are measured based 
on the Ministry of Environment Decree No.
13 of 1995, 
and the Ministry of the Environment Circular No.
B-8594/
MENLH/09/2011 on SO2 emissions for nickel industry.
Results of periodic monitoring and measurement are 
reported to the Government through the Environmental 
Management Plan (RKL) and Environmental Monitoring 
Plan (RPL).
• Parameter of SO2 has not met the quality standards set 
by the Government.
Overburden 
material is waste from excavation material at the mine site 
and is managed through backfilling especially on post-
mining reclamation area.
This contributed to the reduction of fuel 
consumption (HSD).
We ensure 
the volume of water withdrawal and consumption does not 
affect the water volume of Lake Matano.
[G4-EN8, G4-EN9]
When compared to nickel in matte total production in 
2012, the total volume of lake water consumption for 
production purposes during 2013 has decreased.
[MM3]
HAZARDOUS & TOXIC WASTE 
MANAGEMENT
We realize that the increased production of nickel in matte 
has a direct impact on waste generation.
Overburden materials, including topsoil, are managed 
by landfilling on the post-mining land for reclamation 
process.
[G4-24, G4-25] 
This section will only describe all matters relating to the 
local communities and local governments.
Compensation is provided in the form of participatory 
assistance to residents, as a form of the Company’s 
participation and concern over the disturbance due to 
Lake Towuti overflowing to their agricultural land caused 
by Larona dam operation.
The handover was witnessed by 
local government officials, members of Regional House of 
Representatives, and a number of community figures.
The total assistance provided to the residents reached 
Rp5.5 billion.
In the explanation, the Company reiterated the 
commitment to continue promoting the approach 
through consensus and avoid repressive measures against 
Karunsie Dongi community.
Gradually, the assistance is provided through 
consultation and partnership, so that the community 
empowerment program can be integrated and synergize 
with the programs initiated by the central and local 
government and targeted to the correct beneficiaries.
We 
call this initiative the Integrated Community Development 
Program (ICDP).
ICDP was officially launched to the public in January 2014 
at the hall of East Luwu Executive Board for Agriculture, 
Fisheries and Maritime Affairs Extension (BP4K).
The ICDP 
implementation involves coordinating team led by the 
Head of East Luwu Regional Development Planning Agency 
(Bappeda).
The coordination team will further synergize 
them to determine the priority community development 
programs/activities.
PMDM is implemented with a community development 
approach under principles of participatory, independence, 
accountability, integrated and support for the poor and 
vulnerable groups.
In the health sector, PMDM contributes to efforts to 
improve access to basic health service for the poor and 
vulnerable groups.
The program is implemented by 
applying community-based health approach.
The health 
programs include: 
a.
Environmental health; 
c.	 Mother and child healthcare; 
d.	 Nutrition improvement; 
e.	 Prevention and eradication of infectious diseases; 
f.	
Medical treatment.
PMDM will synergize with other 
economic programs to facilitate the provision of livelihood, 
jobs, the development of productive economic units, and 
institutions in the villages.
The programs in economic 
sector, are: 
a.
Agricultural productivity increase; 
b.	 Agro-industry; 
c.	 Rural economic institutions strengthening; 
d.	 Access to markets and business networks; 
e.	 Provision of support facilities and infrastructure for 
rural economy; 
f.	
Alternative livelihood and business development.
(a) Direct Assistance Fund for Village
Each program village will receive an allocation of 
Rp350,000,000 in community direct assistance fund, which 
is determined based on number of population, the number 
of poor households and the level of difficulty in having 
access to health care and the economy.
At the planning stage, activity 
operational funds are provided earmarked for the 
implementation of dissemination and planning activities at 
the village and district levels for the Village Committee, the 
District Committee and Facilitators.
At the village level, these funds are administered by the 
Village Committee.
At the district level administrative 
and activity operational funds are managed by the District 
Committee.
We support the improvement of welfare and quality of life 
through sustainable development framework.
Assistance of coaching and quarantine to prepare for university entrance test 2013 for 
hundreds of high school students in East Luwu.
Development and quality improvement of TK Sorowako (TK Benteng) kindergarten.
School transportation facility for Balambano Village in Wasuponda District and Malili 
District.
CLC is a place for local 
farmers to learn and practice more advanced agricultural 
cultivation technology, build solid farmers institutions, and 
increase their capacity.
In addition to empowering farmers, application of 
sustainable agriculture is expected to restore the pride of 
East Luwu as a production center for pepper and other 
commodities.
More than 7,000 patients were the 
general public who visit the hospital for medical treatment.
• 
In South Sulawesi area, a mosquito nest eradication 
(PSN) campaign was implemented in Nuha, Malili, 
Wasuponda, and Towuti districts, East Luwu Regency, 
South Sulawesi.
In South Sulawesi area, programs/activities carried out are: 
• 
Assistance in provision of hand tractors in Malili District, 
East Luwu Regency;
• 
Cultivation of pepper, cattle and goat farms, 
comparative study in East Java for rice farming 
development in Towuti District; 
• 
Activity of PMDM (Community Action Plan) in East 
Luwu Regency.
In Central Sulawesi area, programs and activities carried out 
are: 
• 
Construction assistance for irrigations and the farm 
roads.
Programs/activities carried out in Central Sulawesi 
area, include building construction assistance, channel 
development, and provision of clean water facilities for 
local communities.
During 2013, we have carried out a local supplier 
development program through a number of training.
The 
programs and training are intended to prepare for their 
participation in the LBI implementation.
[G4-LA14]
The engagement of local companies as suppliers provide 
other indirect benefits to the stakeholders.
By the end of 
the reporting period, approximately 5,364 workers were 
employed by the supplier companies.
We will impose sanctions against suppliers 
who do not comply with the regulations on employment.
The LSP is established to develop employee 
competencies through measurable and verified national 
standardization tools.
In 2014, we are targeting 2,000 employees to participate in 
the certification program.
The certification process will be 
carried out periodically.
40 of 2007 on Limited Liability Company, 
the Company’s governance body structure consists of 
corporate organs: the General Meeting of Shareholders 
(GMS), the Board of Commissioners, and the Board of 
Directors.
Parulian Marpaung
Deputy COO - EHS & Strategic 
Business Development
Andi Suntoro
OMIP Implementation
Wahyudi Firman
Senior Project Manager
Joni Parinding
Project Manager
Richard Jones
Technological 
Development
Vacant
Operational Improvement 
and SPD
Mario Paventi
Ore Preparation
Mario Baharudin
Process Technology
Sudirman Payangan
Reduction Kiln & CTS
 Muh.
Iqbal Al Farobi
Converter
Suharpiyu
Process Plant
Mappaselle
Laporan Keberlanjutan 2014
Tata Kelola Berkelanjutan
66
VP Director, Director of 
Human Resources and 
Corporate Services
Bernardus Irmanto
President Director & Chief 
Executive Officer
Nico Kanter
Internal Audit
Glorinophika
Board of Commissioners
Director & Chief 
Financial Officer
Febriany Eddy
Operational Readiness & 
COW Technical Specialist
I Wayan Prenata
Project Manager Bahodopi
Nadeem Khan
HR Specialist for 
Strategic Project
Ahmad Gunara
Project Procurement and 
Contract Management
I Gusti Putu Oka
Growth Project Control 
& Perform
Vacant
Sr. Engineering Specialist
Regina Maia
Health, Safety, Security & 
External Relations
P. Sampetoding
Project Manager MEP
Darryl Cooke
Petea Road & Early Works 
Site PM
Vacant
Project Director
Dani Widjaja
Engineering
Juan Antonio Fuentes
Project Management Office
Lucas Lessa
Community Relations
Busman Dahlan Shirat
External Relations 
Regional
Vacant
Communications
Teuku Mufizar Mahmud
External Relations Jakarta
Bayu Aji Suparman
Director of External 
Relations & Corporate Affairs
Basrie Kamba
Legal and Corporate 
Secretary
Ratih Amri
General Facility & Services
Sidransyah Yusri
Security
Suryandi Syaiful
Reduction Kiln & CTS
 Muh.
[G4-39] 
GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS
GMS is the highest company organ in the Company’s 
governance structure.
[G4-49] 
GMS consists of Annual General Meeting of Shareholders 
(AGMS) and Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders 
(EGMS).
The changes in Board of Commissioners and 
Board of Directors have been approved in the 2013 
AGMS and 2013 EGMS.
A detailed description of the GMS 
implementation in 2013, and the resolutions are presented 
in the 2013 Annual Report.
There is no member of the Board of 
Commissioners who serves concurrently as a member of 
the Board of Directors, or as other executive officer of the 
Company.
The Board of Commissioners is assisted by the Audit 
Committee and the Governance Committee.
The members 
of the Board of Commissioners are appointed by majority 
shareholders, to be nominated and approved in the GMS.
• 
EGMS on September 24, 2013, accepted the resignation 
of Harumasa Kuokawa as Commissioner, and appointed 
Akira Nozaki as Commissioner until the conclusion of 
the 2014 AGMS.
[G4-35, G4-36, G4-37]
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
The Board of Directors is responsible for the Company’s 
effective, efficient, and prudent management.
Members 
of the Board of Directors are nominated by the majority 
shareholders and approved in the AGMS.
• 
Accepted the appointment of Febriany Eddy as 
Director of the Company, effective as of the 2013 AGMS 
conclusion to 2014 AGMS conclusion.
Description and other explanations on Board of Directors, 
are presented in the 2013 Annual Report, which is prepared 
separately from this report.
Charters of the Board of Commissioners and the Board of 
Directors regulate a number of issues, including the conflict 
of interest prevention guidelines.
[G4-41] 
Charters of the Board of Commissioners and the Board 
of Directors are based on Law No.
Remuneration consists 
of salary and short-term employee benefits and post-
employment benefits.
[G4-51, G4-52, G4-54] 
Remuneration for Independent Commissioner and the 
Board of Directors is determined by the shareholders in the 
GMS.
The determination is based on recommendations by 
the Corporate Governance Committee with regard to the 
market standard.
FIRM is implemented 
by cooperating with all parties in the Company’s 
management, including the Board of Directors, which is 
implemented through an annual workshop, Enterprise Risk 
Assessment (ERA).
[G4-46, G4-47] 
Bowtie Analysis process will generate residual risk value, 
which is an indicator of risk event significance.
A full description of the risks is presented in the 
Annual Report 2013, which is prepared separately.
SUSTAINABLE GOVERNANCE 
EVALUATION [G4-49, G4-50]
Board of Commissioners and Board of Directors intensively 
establish communication.
The Board of Directors 
held 19 meetings.
This 
includes the Sustainability Report preparation, which has 
referred to the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (SRG) G4 
of the Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI).
Conference on mining and commodities; 
3.
Conferences and seminars on finance; 
4.	 International conference on human resources.
Implementation of the CSR program and the collaboration with the related Regional 
Apparatus Work Unit  (SKPD);
2.
Facilitation and mediation in settling some of the existing problems.
Engagement through:
1.
Discussions to improve the mechanisms in implementing the comdev program;
2.
Improving the procedure of recruiting manpower and involving local contractors.
Engagement through:
1.
Discussion on strategic management of the comdev program;
3.
Settling the issue of air and water contamination.
Empowerment, especially to support preservation of the social cultural aspects of the 
local community.
