Make cities inclusive, safe, 
resilient and sustainable.
SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY AND POLICY
This fourth edition of the sustainability report in 2019 is prepared to 
show stakeholders about BUMI’s business strategy and potential 
in the mining sector.
In this fourth edition, we raise the theme 
‘Enhancing Commitment to Advancing Sustainability’.
In this report we consistently strive to promote the principles of 
independency, balance and transparency.
We involve stakeholders 
to assist in the process of preparing this report.
We hope that the 
stakeholder engagement can accommodate the expectations 
of the stakeholders for the sake of advancing the company’s 
sustainability performance.
For the purpose of presentation, the terms “BUMI”, “Corporation”, 
“Company”, and “We” represent PT Bumi Resources Tbk.
Bumi Resources Sutainability Report 2019
Stepping Forward In Developing 
Sustainability Report 
29
Enhancing Commitment to Advancing Sustainability
 
KEBIJAKAN KEBERLANJUTAN
PT Bumi Resources  Tbk.
We believe that Company has 
the responsibility and the capacity to participate in ensuring the 
integrity of environment, safety, ability, welfare, and quality of life of 
present and future generations.
Our commitment to implementing sustainable performance 
includes:
Kami berkomitmen untuk:
1.
We are committed to:
1.
Comply with all state and regional regulations in respect of 
occupational health and safety at the place where the business unit 
operates
4.
Allocating budgets in managing occupational health and safety 
5.
Ensure the feasibility of facilities, infrastructure, installation and 
mining equipment
7.
Improving the safety performance of mining operations in a 
sustainable manner in an effort asset damage and termination of 
operations
8.
Developing safe, efficient and productive mining operations 
9.
Encouraging business units and contractors to adopt international 
voluntary standards related to occupational health and safety.
We are committed to:
1.
Comply with all state and regional regulations in the environment of 
bussines unit operation.
Encouraging business units to monitor and maintain biodiversity  
6.
We are committed to:
1.
Engage in the community in an open and transparent process 
through effective consultation and complaints procedures to resolve 
conflicts fairly
3.
Synergize with the community in the preparation and development 
of community empowerment programs
We are committed to:
1.
Comply with and respect all laws, regulations, agreements and 
conventions, including our governance, policies and Code of Conduct
2.
Achieve investor returns and create long-term value for 
shareholders
3.
Contributing in efforts to implement climate change mitigation 
9.
Encouraging business units to carry out emission reduction 
programs.
Encourage business units to seek transparency in disclosure of 
emissions data.
Encourage business units and contractors to adopt international 
voluntary standards related to occupational health and safety.
We are proud to have developed a human 
rights policy launched in 2018, which has greatly assisted BUMI 
in responding to the challenges from stakeholders with regard 
to respect for human rights.
BUMI’S HUMAN RIGHTS COMMITMENT
1.
Prohibiting all forms of forced labor, modern slavery, and all 
forms of human trafficking.
We act 
decisively against practices involving workers under the age 
of 18 in the business operations.
Protecting and maintaining the safety of workers and visitors 
who work or visit our operating area.
Prohibiting all forms of discrimination in terms of salary, 
recruitment, promotion, training, and provision of facilities 
based on ethnicity, religion, race or gender.
Providing and encouraging business units and supply chains 
to provide a safe and comfortable work environment that is 
free from all forms of harassment.
Prohibiting all forms of indications that lead to corruption 
and bribery.
Incorporating human rights aspects in each cooperation 
agreement with consultants, contractors and suppliers; and 
encouraging them to adhere to human rights commitments.
Identifying all potentially detrimental actions, especially for 
surrounding communities for the commitment to create a 
healthy, safe and prosperous society.
In each assessment, we strive to involve all stakeholders through 
dialogue and partnerships.
Stakeholder engagement (surrounding community, employee, 
business partner, government) and consultation.
Investigation and remediation of human rights violations 
impacts.
Human Rights Policy and Procedures.
HUMAN RIGHTS COORDINATOR
To ensure the performance of human rights respect in 
accordance withCompany’s goals and objectives, based on 
Decree of the Board of Directors No.
478 / BR-BOD / XII / 18, 
we established Human Rights Coordinator Team.
The team 
is in charge of compiling, implementing, and overseeingthe 
implementation of human rights policies.
In carrying out its 
duties, the team will coordinate with cross divisions to instill 
human rights values into all mining operations.
RESPECT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS IN COOPERATION AGREEMENTS  
We recognize that the smooth performance of our business 
partners is closely related to BUMI’s business sustainability.
In 2019, we have consistently put human rights clauses in all 
cooperation agreements with business partners with contract 
values amounting to 4,27 Billion Rupiah.
In addition, we did not find 
any violations of human rights in the form of discrimination, forced 
labor / compulsory labor, and child labor in the Company.
GRIEVANCE MECHANISM
In preparing and establishing Company’s grievance mechanism, 
we based it on the criteria for an effective complaints mechanism 
as  outlined in the United Nations Guiding Principles for Business 
and Human Rights.
legal, fully accessible by the complainant, with 
definite handling time, fair,transparent, and solution-oriented.
We 
expect comments and constructive feedback from stakeholders 
for the progress of BUMI through email speakup@BUMIresources.
Based on the Coal Mining Work Agreement (PKP2B), the 
Government granted permission to KPC to carry out exploration, 
production and marketing of coal in an area of 90,938 hectares 
in Sangatta and Bengalon, East Kutai Regency, East Kalimantan 
Province.
In 2018, based on Minister of Energy and Mineral 
Resources Decree No.
The location close to the port benefits KPC because of the low 
transportation costs from the mine to the port location.
superior quality coal, with high calorific value, very low ash content, medium sulfur content 
with low humidity.
has lower calories than Prima with a higher humidity level.
In 2019, KPC’s total coal production (ready to sell) from Sangatta and Bengalon mines reached 
61.8 million tons, an increase of 11% from 55.8 million tons in 2018.
Keterangan / Description
Sangatta
Bengalon
Total
2019
2018
2019
2018
2019
2018
Overburden (juta BCM)
452.9
447.3
78.3
55.5
531.2
502.8
Stripping Ratio (ton BCM)
8.8
8.9
8.3
8.4
8.7
8.8
Batubara Ditambang (juta ton) / Mined Coal
(million tons)
51.3
50.3
9.5
6.6
60.8
57.0
Batubara Siap Jual (juta ton) / Coal Ready to Sell
(million tons)
52.7
49.6
9.2
6.2
61.8
55.8
Coal Resources and Reserve of KPC – as of end of  December 2019
Lokasi
Location
Sumber Daya Batubara (juta ton)
Coal Resources (million ton)
CadanganBatubara (juta ton)
Coal Reserve (million ton)
Sangatta
5.532
858
Bengalon
1.418
215
Total
6.950
1.073
Arutmin
Tambang Senakin memproduksi batubara bituminous.
The coal is broken 
down, separated and then washed to reduce the ash content in 
order to increase its selling price.
In 2019, total coal production at the Arutmin mine reached 
25.5 million tons, down by 1.5% from 25.9 million tons from the 
previous year.
Bumi Resources Sutainability Report 2019
Moving Forward in Our Contribution to 
Build the Country
83
Enhancing Commitment to Advancing Sustainability
PENJUALAN Batubara (102-6)
Pada 2019, Perusahaan berhasil membukukan total penjualan 
batubara sebesar 87,7 juta ton.
This is proven by the fact that there are no products that violate 
regulations and prohibit distribution by the Government.
For this reason, the development 
of a system for selecting and evaluating procedures is proof of 
BUMI’s commitment to the sustainability of procurement.
The standard includes a clause in the 
contract relating to aspects of environmental and OHS obligations 
in accordance with applicable regulations.
This is in the context of conducting periodic evaluations 
of the providers of goods and services.
To ensure that suppliers will 
comply with all requirements requested by the company, they are 
required to sign a mutually agreed work contract.
CUSTOMER COMPLAINT HANDLING
BUMI and its subsidiaries acknowledge customer complaints 
resolution activities as a form of commitment to long-term 
business relationships and commitment to service quality to 
customers.
The company has a complaint mechanism 
from an external parties.
Parties involved 
in reporting the violations are entitled to legal protection from the 
Company.
As a company that has a human rights policy, we highly respect 
and comply with national and international values and regulations.
This is evident from the absence of cases that led to sanctions for 
violations of customer privacy during 2019.
The products we produce are coal, which are raw material 
products, so we do not label our products.
COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY OF ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
Commitment to environmental management in sustainability 
policies 
1.
Comply with all State and local regulations related to the 
environment where business unit operates.
Encourage business units to conduct monitoring and 
maintenance of biodiversity.
Encourage business units to carry out water conservation 
efforts and energy saving programs.
Contribute to the pursuit of mitigation of climate change.
Encourage business units to manage waste in accordance 
with applicable regulations.
Encourage business units to carry out emissions reduction 
(GHG) programs.
Encourage business units to strive for transparency in 
disclosure of emissions data.
Encourage business units and contractors to adopt 
international voluntary standards related to the environment.
BUMI has adopted all 
environmental management requirements in accordance with 
ISO 14001 guidelines.
(304-1)
of the Minister of Environment No.
5 of 2012 and No.
We ensure that KPC and Arutmin mining activities are conducted 
based on procedures for the identification and systematic 
control of environmental aspects.
This applies to all lines of the 
mining process, from exploration to development, production, 
transportation, reclamation to the stage of mine closure.
KPC 
and Arutmin’s priorities in 2019 are energy efficiency programs, 
water and air quality, vibration and noise, B3 waste management, 
waste and hydrocarbons, biodiversity conservation, revegetation to 
rehabilitation of  post-mining land.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION IN A COOPERATION AGREEMENT
We realize that the smooth performance of business partners 
is closely related to BUMI’s business sustainability.
Before working with 
business partners, we will identify the environmental aspects that 
have been applied by them.
We will make a decision based on that 
assessment.
We note that by the end of 2019 KPC and Arutmin have succeeded 
in including environmental management aspects in all cooperation 
agreements.
STEPPING FORWARD OF OUR BUSINESS UNITS IN MINIMIZING THE 
NEGATIVE IMPACTS ON THE ENVIRONMENT
KPC
Based on the Coal Mining Work Agreement (PKP2B), the 
Government gave permission to KPC to carry out exploration, 
production and marketing of coal in an area of ​
90,938 hectares 
in Sangatta and Bengalon, East Kutai Regency, East Kalimantan 
Province.
In 2018, based on Minister of Energy and Mineral 
Resources Decree No.
Some of KPC’s operational areas are in direct contact with natural 
life.
In the East Kalimantan region, KPC’s operations are indirectly 
bordered by the Kutai National Park which is bounded by the 
Sangatta River.
Minimize impacts with post-mining reclamation
Reclamation is an aspect of managing the mining environment 
with large costs and resources.
The 
realization of the reclamation of the low wall area in 2019 will 
continue to be carried out entirely with land expansion.
Due to different growth times, reporting has not been 
submitted in 2019.
The total area of KPC reclamation realization 
in 2019 is 1,085.40 ha, larger than the RKAB, which is 947.07 ha.
The excess area of the reclamation realization area of 138.33 ha 
is “compensation” from the excess realization of land opening 
covering an area of 122.34 ha.
Reclamation Techniques and Equipment
KPC reclamation implementation standards are regulated in 
the Reclamation Specifications document.
The Reclamation 
specification has been updated to version 3.0, which was passed in 
2019.
Reclamation land structuring techniques are 
engineered with the aim of controlling acid mine drainage through 
PAF rock capulation and erosion control through selective dumping 
and water governance arrangements including construction of 
drop structures.
Revegetation techniques are engineered with 
the aim of restoring the function of natural ecosystems and 
biodiversity through the selection of diverse plant species.
To guarantee the quality of work, the 
process of quality assurance and quality control is carried out 
through an inspection and audit process.
Land clearing and land extraction zones; 
2.
Finalizing the overburden piling, specifically to assess the 
performance of PAF rock cap construction; and 
3.
During the construction process, the supervisory team carries 
out close supervision to ensure the suitability of work to the DDR 
(Dump, Drainage & Rehabilitation) design that has been approved 
by the Pit Department Manager (planner), Mine Planning Manager 
(assessor), Environmental Manager (appraiser) and Custodian / 
Contractor (executor).
The types of species planted are contained in the table below.
The total 
number of seedlings in 2019 was 960,000 trees, which were not all 
planted this year.
Realization of tree planting is lower than the plan, 
which is 909,908 trees.
In January 2019, part of the planting was carried out on 
reclaimed land from the previous year (December 2018) and so on.
The total area of planting carried out during 2019 was 1,259.69 ha, 
including 146.6 ha which is the area of realization of commitments 
to fulfill the 2018 target that was completed at the end of March 
2019.
During 2019, 2415.99 ha of reclamation plants were 
maintained, covering the maintenance periods 1, 2 and 3.
The latest version of the technical guidelines for 2019, is the 
Reclamation Specification V 3.0.
Specifically for the period of 
2014 - 2019, the realization of the annual reclamation area of more 
than 1,000 ha with a total area of 10,395.20 ha at the end of 2019.
Strategies implemented to remain consistent with meeting the 
success criteria standards include:
1.
Incorporate reclamation-revegetation achievements into the 
quarterly employee salary bonus scheme.
This strategy will 
encourage employees to pursue fulfillment of targets.
Include reclamation-revegetation targets in OTP (Objectives, 
Targets, Programs) as the performance criteria for each 
relevant division.
Coordination and quality control are very intense in land 
reclamation structuring activities.
To 
guarantee its long-term function, KPC continuously monitors and 
evaluates the reclamation area.
During ± 10 years the increase in the number of bird 
species reached 60% and 15% of them are protected.
Increasing 
the number of mammals from 9 species to 26 species, 30% of 
which are protected.
Place to live 
± 24 species of mammals, ± 62 species of birds, ± 19 species of 
Herpetofauna, ± 31 species of butterflies and hundreds of species 
of plants.
Based on monitoring conducted by Ecositrop, of the 24 species of 
mammals in the KPC reclamation area, 10 of them are protected.
This 
collaboration is associated with research and development, area 
protection, community empowerment, ecosystem recovery, and 
natural tourism development.
We hope that management of 
conservation areas can be in line with national programs to be 
more efficient and effective.
Taman Payau Conservation Area
It is a reclamation area in 1998 with an area of ± 163.60 ha.
and Gmelina arborea.
Specifically for the Taman Payau conservation 
area, there are 13 Orangutan, consisting of 4 adult males, 
4 females, 2 juveniles, and 3 babies.
Pinang Dome Conservation Area
Most of these conservation areas are young secondary forests 
with an area of ± 968.71 ha.
and Borneo endemic plants.
Conservation Area Biodiversity Index
Biodiversity in conservation areas is classified as moderate to high.
Some of the more commonly made efforts include 
Melangkah Maju dalam  
Pengelolaan Lingkungan Hidup
Bumi Resources Sutainability Report 2019
100 Peneguhan Komitmen Demi Mewujudkan Keberlanjutan 
Indeks Keanekaragaman Hayati Flora dan Fauna Kawasan Konservasi KPC 
Biodiversity Index of Flora and Fauna of KPC Conservation Area
Herpetofauna
0
0.5
1.5
2.5
3
3.5
1.987
2.14
2.3
3.135
2
1
Herpetofauna
Herpetofauna
Herpetofauna
ekosistem.
creating management / conservation areas, education, coral 
rehabilitation and so on.
In order to respond to these challenges relating to coral reef 
conservation, KPC in collaboration with the East Kutai College of 
Agriculture (STIPER), Reef Check Indonesia, and Tanjung Bara Dive 
Club conduct coral reef monitoring and opportunities for active 
human assistance through rehabilitation activities.
Rehabilitation 
in question is the provision of artificial coral from concrete media.
Tanjung Bara Dive Club itself is a community of divers consisting of 
employees from KPC.
Water Source Consumption and Optimization
KPC is firmly committed to to the water conservation listed in 
the KPLKPB & PKB Policy document (Mining Safety, Environment, 
Security, Sustainable Development, and Business Performance 
Improvement).
There are 11 Sewage Treatment Plants (STP) owned and 
operated by KPC.
Waste water quality monitoring is carried out at all KPC 
compliance points, which at the end of 2019 totaled 51 compliance 
points, consisting of 7 waste water compliance points to the sea, 33 
mining waste water compliance points and 11 domestic wastewater 
compliance points.
The results of water quality measurements indicate that 
KPC has 100% met the required standards in accordance with 
applicable laws and regulations.
Biodiesel 
in this case, is a renewable energy source that can replace fossil 
fuels as an energy source in vehicles.
In 2019, total 
of KPC’s biodiesel consumption was 171.71 million liters, with diesel 
consumption of 686.86 million liters, or 19.97% of the total KPC fuel 
energy consumption.
The large-scale application of biodiesel as carried out by KPC 
is a differentiator from other companies and is evidence of high 
commitment in the application of renewable energy in mining 
operations.
The total KPC energy consumption in 2019 is 34.557.663 GJ.
So the KPC energy intensity was recorded at 
559.185.
The total cost of developing and installing the solar 
panel unit is more than Rp1, 40 billion.
Monitoring is carried out for 24 hours with the ‘Integrating Sound 
Level Meter’ tool, while the noise quality standard refers to Kep 
Men LH no.
Monitoring 
was carried out in community settlement areas in Sangatta (Singa 
Gembara Village), Rantau Pulung (Mukti Jaya Village) and Bengalon 
(Segading and Seriwang Villages).
In an effort to prevent and reduce these impacts, we are 
committed to conducting business operations more efficiently and 
reducing carbon emissions in each of our business activities.
Through the Regulation of the Minister of Environment of the 
Republic of Indonesia No.
12 of 2012 concerning Guidelines for the 
Calculation of Emission Burden of Oil and Gas Industry Activities, 
we noted that in 2019, carbon emissions generated in the KPC 
business environment amounted to 1,885,565 tons of CO2eq, or 
decreased compared to the year previously recorded 1,911,408 tons 
of CO2eq.
Monitoring of air emissions from PLTU chimneys, boilers for 
cooking ANFO, and generators in the Sangatta and Bengalon 
mining areas is carried out by external laboratories on schedule.
Emission monitoring activities refer to:
•	
Regulation of Minister of Environment No.
07 of 2007 
concerning “Quality Standards for Emissions from Immovable 
Sources for Steam Boilers”
•	
Regulation of Minister of Environment No.
P.15 / MENLHK 
/ SETJEN / KUM.1 / 4/2019 concerning ‘Standard Quality of 
Emissions for Thermal Power Plants’
•	
Regulation of Minister of Environment No.
Measurements were made at the time of burning filter and medical 
waste (solid) with a volume of 100 kg and 40 kg respectively.
Bumi Resources Sutainability Report 2019
Moving Forward In 
 Environmental Management
113
Enhancing Commitment to Advancing Sustainability
Data Pemantauan Emisi Udara pada Cerobong PLTU 2019 
Lokasi
Location
Kode
Code
Tanggal
Date
Total 
Partikulat
Total 
Particulate
Sulfur 
Dioksida 
(SO2)
Sulfur 
Dioxide (SO2)
Nitrogen Oksida 
(Nox) sebagai 
NO2
Nitrogen Oxide 
(Nox) as NO2
Opasitas
Opacity
Raksa
Mercury
Unit
(mg/Nm3)
(mg/Nm3)
(mg/Nm3)
(%)
(mg/Nm3)
Baku Mutu *)
Quality 
Standards *)
100
550
550
20
0,03
Cerobong PLTU 1 
PLTU Chimney 1 
Boiler T/A 101 
29-Jan19 
61,51 
5,04 
127,93 
10,00 
- 
Cerobong PLTU 2 
PLTU Chimney 2 
Boiler T/A 102 
29-Jan-19 
75,64 
4,16 
325,32 
10,00 
- 
Cerobong PLTU 3 
PLTU Chimney 3 
Boiler T/A 103 
31-Jan-19 
76,42 
13,04 
112,48 
10,00 
- 
Cerobong PLTU 4 
PLTU Chimney 4 
Boiler T/A 104 
30-Jan-19 
63,48 
539,43 
202,81 
10,00 
- 
Cerobong PLTU 5 
PLTU Chimney 5 
Boiler T/A 105 
28-Jan-19 
71,66 
148,47 
295,82 
10,00 
- 
Cerobong PLTU 1 
PLTU Chimney 1 
Boiler T/A 101 
4-Sep-19 
58,54 
475,05 
163,21 
- 
0,0062 
Cerobong PLTU 2 
PLTU Chimney 2 
Boiler T/A 102 
4-Sep-19 
53,15 
461,09 
167,40 
- 
0,0002 
Cerobong PLTU 3 
PLTU Chimney 3 
Boiler T/A 103 
3-Sep-19 
25,54 
500,04 
161,79 
- 
0,0002 
Cerobong PLTU 4 
PLTU Chimney 4 
Boiler T/A 104 
2-Sep-19 
41,93 
154,13 
233,60 
- 
0,0002 
Cerobong PLTU 5 
PLTU Chimney 5 
Boiler T/A 105 
30-Agu-19 
30,38 
399,67 
151,90 
- 
0,0002 
* Quality standard refers to the Regulation of Minister of Environment and Forestry No.
Emission Quality Standards for Steam Power Plants (PLTUs) Built or 
Operated Prior to this Ministerial Regulation.
Phase 1 utilization activities are planned to be completed in 
Quarter 1 of 2020 with further activities in the form of containment 
with NAF layers and soil to then be monitored for oxygen levels in 
the hood material that has been minimized.
KPC has complete facilities to utilize 
organic waste, including:
•	
Composting   
KPC has a composting facility centrally located in the Nursery 
area.
For compost 
production, KPC utilizes kitchen waste from KPC partner 
catering services and paper waste from the KPC office.
In general, the control mechanism related to the mine opening 
area and disturbed land is aimed at surface run-off water and 
water from mine pumps.
Surface run-off water and mine pump 
results are distribute through drainage pipeline to be subsequently 
accommodated and managed both in sediment ponds and settling 
ponds.
To ensure compliance with quality standards for wastewater, 
monthly measurements of water quality are carried out by an 
accredited external party.
Quality measurements in all monitoring locations during 2019 
showed satisfactory results.
113/2003 and South Kalimantan Governor’s Regulation No.
Until the end of 2019, an area 
of approximately 8,030 ha of land had been reorganized and 
approximately 6,828 ha had been planted from the total area of 
disturbed land.
The ratio of land that has been arranged to the 
cumulative land opening area reaches 49.8% while the ratio of land 
that has been re-vegetated to the total area of openings is 42.3%.
During 2019, land rehabilitation activities in all mining sites 
included 879 ha of land management and 621 ha of re-vegetation.
In addition, speed restrictions were imposed on trucks 
passing coal mines and hauling roads with the aim of suppressing 
dust dispersion into the air.
In 2019, greenhouse gas 
emissions released into the air amounted to 473,040 tons of CO2 Eq.
All B3 
TPS managed by Arutmin have obtained licenses from the local 
Regional Government where each mine and special terminal 
operate.
Analysis of raw water quality testing is carried out by 
an independent party certified by KAN and nationally recognized.
During 2019 
(approximately 7 months) 11.2 million Liters of clean water was 
distributed through the pipeline to the community.
The floating net 
cage fishery program (KJA) is a collaboration between Arutmin, 
the Fisheries, and Maritime Service of Tanah Bumbu Regency and 
South Kalimantan Province and the residents of Mantewe / Batu 
Harang villages.
The 
Department of Fisheries and Maritime Affairs of South Kalimantan 
Province and Tanah Bumbu Regency prepare cages and fisheries 
development through the Fisheries Management Group to the 
Batu Harang community who are members of the Impersonation 
Group.
Analysis of water quality tests and fish tissue tests are conducted 
by nationally recognized independent parties.
Utilization of post-mining land and reservoirs as tourist sites 
continues in 2019.
Some of the activities in the post-mining and 
reservoir locations include general public visits.
Treatment has been 
carried out by fertilizing and weeding plants and watering during 
the dry season, especially in the dry season during 2019.
During 2019, Arutmin has planted critical areas of forest in 
the context of watershed rehabilitation of approximately 381.7 
hectares.
The watershed rehabilitation area is located in Banjar 
Regency, Tanah Laut, and Tanah Bumbu, South Kalimantan 
Province.
Bumi Resources Sutainability Report 2019
Moving Forward In 
 Environmental Management
123
Enhancing Commitment to Advancing Sustainability
Kegiatan eksplore 
dan ekspose Karuh 
Exploration and exposure 
activities Karuh
Kegiatan eksplore dan 
ekspose Karuh 
Exploration and exposure 
activities Karuh
Kunjungan Ibu Bupati 
Tanah Laut 
The visit of Mrs. Regent  of 
Tanah Laut
Uraian Biaya
Cost Description
Rencana (USD)
Plans (USD)
Realisasi (USD)
Realization (USD)
KPC
Biaya Pengelolaan Lingkungan
Environmental Management Costs
72.411.163 
62.103.283 
Biaya Pemantauan Lingkungan
Environmental Monitoring Costs
1.586.015 
1.350.138 
Total
      73.997.178
      63.453.421
Arutmin
Biaya Pengelolaan Lingkungan
Environmental Management Costs
23.727.210
 
* Quality standard refers to the Regulation of Minister of Environment and Forestry No.
Emission Quality 
Standards for Steam Power Plants (PLTUs) Built or Operated Prior to this Ministerial Regulation.
The planned planting activity is part of 
the 2020 planting plan.
Complaints Mechanism for Environmental Problems
Any environmental problem arising in the surrounding community 
are communicated directly to the External Relations Department.
The external relations submits complaints 
to the environmental department for follow up.
Sepanjang tahun 2019, realisasi dana CSR BUMI, KPC dan Arutmin mencapai 
97,5 Miliar Rupiah”
“BUMI declares its commitment to maintaining harmony between the Company’s progress and 
efforts to continuously contribute in developing local communites where the Company operates 
as a step forward to achieve sustainability.
51/POJK.03/2017 Tentang 
Penerapan Keuangan Berkelanjutan bagi Lembaga Jasa Keuangan, 
OVERVIEW OF COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT AND DEVELOPMENT 
GOVERNANCE 
 
BUMI is aware that the activities carried out by the Company 
directly or indirectly affect both the community and the 
environment.
Our efforts to move forward with the community are 
carried out by consistently placing and paying attention to the 
socio-cultural aspects that prevail in the community.
We consistently develop and plan 
a series of programs that are considered effective to optimize the 
potential and empower the community to live independently.
Each 
business unit is deeply involved in implementing CSR programs 
that are adapted to the conditions of the business environment.
COMPLIANCE WITH GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS
Our commitment to optimizing the potential and empower the 
community is in accordance with  Presidential Regulation No.
Social 
Responsibility Policy and Procedure Version 1.0  is a clear evidence 
of compliance with the Financial Services Authority Regulation No.
Government Regulation Number 47 of 2012 on Social and 
Environmental Responsibility of Limited Company.
4 of 2009 on Mineral and Coal Mining
Increasing community trust and its prosperity is our highest 
achievement.
For this reason, we have created a work program to 
periodically implement the Gap Assessment.
The purpose of Gap Assessment is 
to improve the performance of social responsibility.
In order to move 
forward, we envision Company’s success being simultaneously 
closely related to the success of the community.
time contributing directly to the community development.
We recognize that this approach is the most effective and 
sustainable means of empowering and developing communities.
MOVING FORWARD BY CONTRIBUTING TO THE SUSTAINABLE 
DEVELOPMENT GOALS
In 2019, we restructured the approach to contributing to the 
fulfillment of SDGs.
The change in our strategy was carried out to 
meet the expectations of stakeholders and to ensure Company’s 
capability in optimizing our effort to the fulfilment of SDGs.
Aligning our business goals with the long-term interests of 
stakeholders and the wider community is crucial for the future 
success of BUMI.
We undertake 
this effort as part of our desire to step forward in optimizing the 
Company’s contribution to the empowerment and development of 
society and the environment.
Rencana Jangka Panjang CSR BUMI, dapat 
digambarkan sebagai berikut:
BUMI CSR LONG TERM PLAN
BUMI CSR Long Term Plan (2019-2024) is prepared as a guideline 
for the Company to achieve sustainable development goals.
BUMI’s Vision in the Implementation of CSR (BUMI CSR 
Flagship)
2.
-
-
Award in the 2019 Indonesian Sustainable Development Goals 
Award (ISDA) for:
•	
Grand Gold Award in the 2019 Indonesian Sustainable 
Development Goals Award (ISDA)
•	
Platinum Award for the Program Mining Pond Utilization as 
Raw Water Source for the Municipality Waterworks of East 
Kudungga
•	
Platinum Award for the Prevention Program for Toddler 
Underweight and Malnutrition Children Based on 
Community Empowerment through Education and 
Rehabilitation.
-
-
Award from the Tanah Laut Regent as a token of concern for 
the Arutmin Tambang Kintap for “High-Risk Examination of 
Mothers” in order to reduce maternal and child mortality.
BUMI COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT AND DEVELOPMENT (CSR) 
PROGRAM 2019
We and the Business Units actively realize the Community 
Empowerment and Development Program by involving the role 
and participation of the community itself, particularly those 
surrounding Company’s operational area.
We routinely compile and 
plan a series of programs that can have a wider positive impact on 
society and the environment.
BUMI’s awareness realized through the 
construction of houses in collaboration with the NGO Habitat for 
Humanity Indonesia.
The program initiated 
by a social study of families targeted for housing construction.
As part of the disaster recovery effort, BUMI conduct a 
reconstruction program of PAUD (early childhood education) Mekar 
Harum, Tegal Maja Village, Tanjung District, North Lombok, West 
Nusa Tenggara (NTB).
The inauguration was held on Thursday, July 
25, 2019 and was attended by the BUMI CSR Team, local community 
leaders, teachers, and communities.
The construction was marked 
by the groundbreaking ceremony of the school construction.
Bumi Resources Sutainability Report 2019
Declaration of Commitment to Moving Forward in the 
Development of Sustainable Community 
137
Enhancing Commitment to Advancing Sustainability
Regency.
In rebuilding schools, BUMI collaborate with Happy 
Hearts Indonesia.
At the end of 2019, BUMI reaffirmed its commitment in 
rehabilitating houses damaged by the earthquake and liquefaction 
by initiating the construction of 10 victims’ houses in Lolu Village, 
Sigi, Central Sulawesi.
This includes the 
availability of quality school library facilities.
The construction of the library began in 
November 2018 and was completed in September 2019.
Contribution on Environmental and Community Empowerment
Bumi pays great attention related to waste management and 
community economic empowerment.
Indonesia is the top 5 waste 
producing countries in the world.
The involvement of the private 
sector in helping to manage waste while increasing community 
income is key.
For this reason, BUMI in collaboration with the 
Center for Alternative Resolution and Empowerment - Bogor 
Agricultural University, is implementing a community-based waste 
management program in Kebalen Village, Bekasi Regency, West 
Java.
The program output consists of increasing public awareness of 
household-based waste management, cleaning up the Bekasi 
riverbank, creating waste products into marketable products, 
processing organic waste into compost and liquid fertilizer, and 
processing plastic waste into engine fuel through the incineration 
process.
Contribution on Health 
 
Cataract Surgery
Signing of cooperation between the Company and Hermina Galaxy 
Hospital, Bekasi to perform cataract operations.
Sesuai dengan misinya, KPC 
mengambil peran sebagai katalisator pembangunan wilayah dan 
menjadi motivator program PPM dengan mengacu kepada cetak 
biru rencana pembangunan nasional, provinsi serta kabupaten 
Bumi Resources Sutainability Report 2019
Declaration of Commitment to Moving Forward in the 
Development of Sustainable Community 
139
Enhancing Commitment to Advancing Sustainability
Circumcision Activity
Signing of collaboration between the Company and Hermina Galaxy 
Hospital, Bekasi to conduct circumcision for poor families in 
Bekasi city / regency.
About 150 patients from the Menteng Atas village 
were examined for their health, which included checking blood 
pressure, body weight, upper respiratory tract infections, and other 
general health checks.
Kaltim Prima Coal
The CSR program run by our business unit, Kaltim Prima Coal 
(KPC), refers to the principles listed in ISO26000: 2010 Guidance on 
Social Responsibility, which states that the objective of corporate 
responsibility is sustainability.
The PPM program is carried out by the External Affairs and 
Sustainable Development (ESD) Division as the mandate holder of 
the Company.
KPC’s PPM program is carried out in collaboration 
and partnership with the community, relevant agencies and the 
Multi-Stakeholder Forum for Corporate Social Responsibility 
(MSH-CSR).
The 269 
students participated in the Expertise Competency Test and 
involved 14 KPC staff.
Development of Sangatta Utara  Fisheries and Maritime Vocational 
School 2
In collaboration with the Jakarta Fisheries High School (STP), KPC 
conducted a rayonization examination in the STP Kalimantan 
region, which was held at SMK 2 Sangatta East Kutai in order to 
provide convenience for prospective students in the Kalimantan 
area.
This activity was held on 25-26 June 2019 and was attended 
by 9 students from East Kutai, Berau, Samarinda and Central 
Kalimantan.
The beneficiaries of this program are 6 elementary school 
graduates from Filial 013.
Teacher Training in South Sangatta
KPC in collaboration with Putera Sampoerna Foundation held a 
series of training courses for elementary school teachers and 
principals in South Sangatta District.
Occupational Health Safety Training
Providing OHS training for SMK Muhammadiyah Sangatta from 27 
November to 19 December 2019.
The training was attended by 131 
students and 8 assistant teachers.
), Head 
of the Health Service, PT.
HIV / AIDS Prevention Program
-
-
Counseling and socialization of HIV AIDS in the community, 
employees, and students with a total of 1,024 participants.
-
-
Counseling through Kutim’s RPD radio media and the playback 
of the HIV AIDS jingle on the RPD KUTIM and GWP radio.
-
-
Holding a TB-HIV Collaboration Data Validation Meeting at 
the level of public health center and hospital in Sangatta and 
surrounding areas.
-
-
Commemorating World AIDS Day by holding joint exercises, VCT 
examinations, blood sugar, uric acid, blood type, and cholesterol 
tests.
Disease Control Due to Mosquitoes
The collaboration program with Sepaso Health Center in Bengalon 
District and East Kutai Health Service aims to reduce the incidence 
of dengue cases, especially in Bengalon District.
Improving Mother and Child Health
The Nutrition Education and Rehabilitation Program (PERGIZI), 
nutrition clinics, and the Maternal and Child Health Interest Groups 
(KPKIA) are carried out in collaboration with Oase NGO.
Treatment
Conduct free cataract operations for the poor in East Kutai.
This 
program is in collaboration with the Smile and Hope Foundation 
and PERDAMI (Association of Indonesian Ophthalmologists) 
Dokter Spesialis Mata Indonesia) Kaltimtara dan Dinas Kesehatan 
Kabupaten Kutai Timur.
Sebanyak 30 pelaku 
Bumi Resources Sutainability Report 2019
Declaration of Commitment to Moving Forward in the 
Development of Sustainable Community 
143
Enhancing Commitment to Advancing Sustainability
Kaltimtara and the East Kutai District Health Office.
Drinking Milk
The collaboration program with the Sangatta Baru Foundation 
aims to invite the public to realize the benefits of milk for all ages.
This activity was carried out at the same time to promote fresh 
milk from domestic cows in the former mining area of PESAT 
(Integrated Cattle Farming).
The total number of students who received milk 
was 2,816 and the amount of milk distributed was 480 liters.
A total of 30 business actors were successfully 
filtered in this activity.
As of the end of 2019, there were 203 
SMEs as Olsabara partners.
In 2019, the program has produced 895 handicraft 
products with 169.5 kg of managed waste.
Development of the East Kutai Batik Community
Assistance provided for this program includes marketing support 
through Olsabara, socialization of East Kutai batik to schools 
and the Kutim community, training in batik making, comparative 
studies, making batik studios in North Sangatta and Rantau Pulung, 
stimulants of raw materials, and management of Intellectual 
Property Rights (Hak Atas) Intellectual Property).
On 27-31 March 
2019, batik motif nails from North Sangatta participated in The 
Indonesian Fashion Week in Jakarta.
Bumi Resources Sutainability Report 2019
Declaration of Commitment to Moving Forward in the 
Development of Sustainable Community 
145
Enhancing Commitment to Advancing Sustainability
-
-
Training on preparation of Perdes / PADEs and management of 
village assets
-
-
A village innovation degree in Rantau Pulung District
-
-
BUMDesa internal meetings in monitoring and evaluating 
quarterly performance
-
-
The stimulation of renovation of local poultry cages for 
enlargement of parent stock breeding farm programs in 
BUMDesa Gembara Prima
-
-
The stimulation of  water refill business units in BUMDesa 
Karya Sari Sejahtera in form of reservoirs and gallons of water.
-
-
The stimulation of Bumdes Mart business unit in BUMDesa 
Sangatta Utara Sejahtera in form of BumdesMart Sarpras.
This was accompanied by carrying out to 21 BUMDesa in the 
Districts of North Sangata, South Sangatta, Rantau Pulung and 
Bengalon.
-
-
Development of a wastewater treatment plant to 
accommodate the output of the biogas digester.
-
-
Facilitating educational tours from students, KPC guests, the 
community with a total number of 4,348 visitors in a year.
-
-
Optimizing the feedmill to fulfill cow concentrate by prioritizing 
cost efficiency.
Production in 2019 will reach 14.6 tons.
Jupiter Farm
Focuses on efforts to develop 100-hectare cattle breeding (Bali 
cattle).
As of the end of 2019, there were 93 
cows consisting of 1 male, 40 breeding females, 5 unbred females, 
and 47 calves.
Providing stimulant for infrastructure facilities for cassava food 
production in the form of paranet, artco, water pumping machine, 
and reservoir for 2 cassava food clusters in Rantau Pulung.
A total of 264 households from 9 farmer groups benefited 
from this program.
As of the end of 2019, the total population of local poultry 
in farmer groups reached 5,000.
Laying Chicken Cultivation
In 2019 a meeting of laying hens breeders was held in order to form 
a laying hens association.
Laying Hens association meetings were 
held in order to study the feasibility of making egg dishes, and a 
meeting on the application of PESAT feedmill product concentrate 
for chicken feed.
As of the end of 2019 there were 2 groups of 
livestock in North Sangatta and South Sangatta with a total of 13 
family heads and a total of 32,529 laying hens.
Social and Culture
Social, Youth, Sports, and Religious Activities
-
-
Dispatch of rescue teams and assistance for victims of natural 
disasters in Banten, Bengkulu, and Samarinda
-
-
Assistance for hospitality and grebeg activities 1 Suro of  
Jaranan Borneo Putro Legowo art group
-
-
Organization of ASEAN Workshop on CSR 2019 in Balikpapan on 
1-2 October 2019.
-
-
Improvement of 600m access road to Kampung Budaya, 
Keraitan, Bengalon
-
-
Making pile to prevent landslides in Asisi School, Kabo, North 
Sangatta 
-
-
Repair of potholes on Jalan Poros Kabo, North Sangatta
-
-
Handling landslides and repairing Sangatta-Bengalon road, 
East Kutai Regency
-
-
Assistance for the construction of the files warehouse of the 
South Sangatta District Office to improve services for 6,389 
households in the South Sangatta District.
-
-
Assistance for the construction of grain warehouses for 
Sumber Makmur Sangatta Selatan Farmers Group.
The event carried out in the form of seminars and 
training.
The bus has 72 pickup 
points with a total of 140 students and teachers.
Bumi Resources Sutainability Report 2019
Declaration of Commitment to Moving Forward in the 
Development of Sustainable Community 
149
Enhancing Commitment to Advancing Sustainability
Package C Program
Arutmin Senakin and Kintap held a Package C program in 
collaboration with the Office of Education.
Procurement of Educational Facilities
Providing assistance in the form of 14 desktops, school equipment, 
computer loans for UNBK, providing technical services for 
computers and providing library books for 12 schools.
In 2019, Arutmin 10K was held on November 17, 2019 in 
commemoration of Arutmin Indonesia’s 38th Anniversary.
This 
competition was held in Banjarbaru City, South Kalimantan 
Province with a total of 4,200 regional and national runners.
Animal Feed Production Training
Ruminant animal production training was conducted at  Kintap and 
Senakin Site and training on poultry and fish feed production was 
carried out at the Senakin Site.
All these 
facilities can be directly accessed by the community in an effort 
to improve skills and improve the quality of products produced by 
farmers.
Development of Cattle and Goats
Managed through a Village-Owned Enterprise (BUMDES), the 
recipient community is loaned to cattle breeders.
Sasirangan Fabric and T-Shirt Manufacturing Training
Conduct training in making cloth and sasirangan shirts.
Health
 
HIV AIDS Prevention and Control
Conduct HIV and AIDS prevention and control programs by giving 
knowledge seminars.
Integrated Healthcare Center
This program is routinely implemented to reduce maternal and 
infant mortality rates.
Cataract Surgery
In 2019, the program held at the NPLCT Arutmin Clinic successfully 
assisted the operation of 93 cataract patients.
Mass Circumcision
The NPLCT Site held a mass circumcision activity in collaboration 
with the Kotabaru KODIM 1004, in the context of Commemoration of 
the 2019 Fighting Day.
The program was carried out in the Operation 
Room of the Kotabaru Regional Secretary on 15 and 24 December 
2019 with a total of 95 participants.
Donations and Social Assistance
 
Infrastructure Improvement
Assistance for the construction of facilities and / or infrastructure 
for worship and relationships in the religious sector through 
activities to improve worship facilities, recitation, Eid celebrations, 
Ramadan, and other religious holidays.
Assistance provided in the form of material funds and 
fielded a special team (Emergency Response Team).
Infrastructure development
Making Control Boxes and Drainage
Provide control box assistance at the Kintap site circle and carry 
out drainage construction in Asam-Asam to avoid flooding.
Procurement of Clean Water Facilities
Assist in the construction of towers, artesian wells and the 
Bumi Resources Sutainability Report 2019
Declaration of Commitment to Moving Forward in the 
Development of Sustainable Community 
151
Enhancing Commitment to Advancing Sustainability
tandon, jet pump serta panisasi dan melakukan pendistribusian air 
bersih.
provision of reservoirs, jet pumps and organization for the 
distribution of clean water.
Renovation of Worship House
Conduct construction and renovation of the Shogir Assa’adah 
Mosque in Asam-Asam, Tahfidz’s House in Kintap, Tahfidz’s House 
in Batulicin, Langgar At-Tawwab, Musholla in MA Miftahul Ulum 
Sumber Jaya Village, as well as the ablution and installation of the 
Daruddoa langgar fence Semayap Village.
Public Street Lighting
Construction of lighting facilities / infrastructure at 10 public road 
points in Desan Singam and Sarang Tiung.
Educational Infrastructure Renovations
Conducting toilet construction at SMPN 2  Kelumpang Tengah, 
building rehabilitation of Pandansari 3 Kindergarten, construction 
of the Tahfidzul Qur’an Islamic Boarding School “Al-Mujahidin” 
Kebun Raya Kintap Village, construction and rehabilitation of 
Diniyah Miftahul Jannah Madrasa Islamic School in Senakin Village, 
building construction of Al-Qur’an Educational Park, Al Kautsar 
in Semayap Village, Kotabaru Regency NPLCT, construction of 
UPTD SDN 2 Kebun Raya mosque in Kebun Raya Kintap Village, 
construction of Sanitation Facilities for MIS Elementary Schools 
Work Development of Tirawan NPLCT Village and improvement of 
sanitation facilities at Al Qur’an Pangeran Suriansyah Kotabaru 
NPLCT boarding school.
In preparing for reclamation, plant nurseries are needed so that 
an Independent Business Group (KUM) was formed in Senakin 
for nursery reclamation plants.
To support the PPM program in the field of livestock, a Farmers 
Group in Kintap has been established to carry out the Animal 
Breeding program that begins with Goat Breeding.
The 
debriefing and signing of the program cooperation has been 
carried out with 10 farmers of the Lingkar Tambang Village.
Through the speak up system, 
we provide an opportunity for the public to complain about the 
discrepancies in our operational performance and business 
units.
In handling complaints, we are committed to avoiding 
discriminatory actions.
In developing the Speak up system, we put 
forward the principle of validity, can be accessed by complainants, 
the handling time is concrete, fair, transparent, and oriented to 
solving problems.
Complaints can be submitted through BUMI website; (http://www.
We put aspects 
of employees into the GMP as a very 
important aspect.
This guideline emphasizes BUMI’s commitment to conducting 
business ethically by promoting the core values of BUMI and its 
business units that focus on integrity, excellence, professionalism, 
prioritizing safety and the environment.
Team Building Program and Code of Conduct socialization
2.
Management of the Individual Development Plan (IDP)
3.
Implementation of the Employee Assistance Program (EAP)
HR Management Performance
In developing human resources, we are consistently committed 
to complying with applicable labor regulations.
In addition to the guidelines outlined in the sustainability policy, 
we continously strive to attach professional values in accordance 
with the code of conduct prepared through the program.
For this reason, recruitment 
is the initial process to attain qualified human resources.
This year, we did not increase the number of employees but the 
recruitment was carried out in the context of replacing employees 
who had resigned.
While in 
other business units, Arutmin, the employee turnover rate was only 
11 employees (2.1%).
For employees 
who are entering retirement age, we provide a training program 
called Retirement Preparation Period (MPP).
This program 
aims to prepare the employees physically and mentally after 
retirement by providing supplies such as skills and knowledge in 
managing health and nutrition.
The training 
was conducted for all levels of employees, from VP & Senior 
Manager to staff level.
During 2019 KPC provided full-time training and executive training to a total of 1,665 employees 
with a total training time of 24,687 hours, while Arutmin has managed to facilitate training of 433 
employees with a duration of briefing of 13,960 training hours.
We are committed to providing equal opportunities for female 
and male employees.
Determination of remuneration is based on 
position, tenure, workload, work location and work performance.
Housing Ownership Program (HOP) bagi karyawan/ manajemen 
To maintain employee loyalty and high productivity, we continue 
to develop an attractive remuneration system for employees.
KPC has developed and implemented a strategy to 
achieve this through:
1.
Gradual review and updating of the current competency 
model.
Continual improvement in the implementation of the 
operator’s Performance Management System.
Development of a Performance Management System 
model for supervisor and superintendent levels in the 
Mining Operations Division and Mining Support Division.
c.	 Performance Management System Rollout in Contract 
Mining Division, Coal Processing & Handling Division, and 
Health, Safety, Environment & Security Division.
Employee Engagement Survey
 
In 2019, all employees involved in the performance review will 
be examined and assessed as a basis for increasing employee 
remuneration and allowance each year.
In terms of compliance with regulations, the company continously 
strives to fulfill all employee rights that have been guaranteed 
by law.
In terms of compliance with regulations, the company continously strives to fulfill all 
employee rights that have been guaranteed by law.
There is no significant 
risk of Company operations against freedom of association and 
assembly.
To participate in trade union activities, employees can 
apply for permits or dispensations.
The granting of permits and 
dispensations has been carefully reviewed and regulated in a 
Collective Labor Agreement (CLA) between Company and Workers 
Union, which has been ratified by the Ministry of Manpower and 
Transmigration.
In addition, KPC seeks to involve employees or trade unions in 
formulating most of the company’s policies to create and maintain 
harmonious relationships.
These provisions are in 
accordance with applicable Company Regulations or CLA.
To ensure OHS performance is in line with current international 
standards, we periodically follow assessments conducted by 
independent institutions such as the Responsible Mining Index 
(RMI).
Through sustainability policies, human rights policies, and the Code 
of Conduct, we continue to encourage business units to instill OHS 
culture to all employees and their supply chains.
The key to success of KPC and Arutmin in implementing SMK3 
starts with management commitment as outlined in the OHS 
policy of business units.
In operational activities, KPC and Arutmin 
apply high discipline and innovation by consistently encourage 
their supply chains to follow the the implementation of the policy.
- Emphasize the importance of 
each individual - employee or contractor - to be responsible for their own safety, and for their 
colleagues.
- Encourage employees to share 
their workplace safety knowledge when they are at home and in their communities.
- Comply with all state and regional 
regulations governing occupational health and safety at the place where the business unit 
operates
Mengalokasikan anggaran dalam pengelolaan kesehatan dan keselamatan kerja.
Allocate a budget in the management of occupational safety and health.
- Develop and 
manage a work safety and health management system and carry out maintenance of mine 
facilities, infrastructure, installations and equipment.
Ensure the feasibility of mining facilities, infrastructure, installations and equipment.
- Carry out continuous improvement 
in the safety performance of mining operations in an effort to prevent damage to assets and 
cessation of operations.
- Create safe, 
efficient and productive mining operations.
- Encourage business units and contractors 
to adopt international voluntary standards related to occupational health and safety.
Until 2019, KPC has 
succeeded in identifying risks by determining 12 types of work that 
are classified as having potential fatality or danger.
Periodically, 
KPC and Arutmin review the procedures and implementation of 
risk identification through an audit program involving internal 
companies, governments, and independent assessment 
institutions.
1 of 1970 concerning Occupational Safety and No.
13 of 
2003 concerning Labor, Article 86 paragraph 2, which emphasizes 
the company’s obligation to carry out occupational safety and 
health efforts for its workers.
In KPC, out of 14 Chapters 
and 87 articles listed in the PKB, there are 7 articles that cover the 
topic of Occupational Safety and Health or about 8% of the total 
discussion in the PKB.
This topic is listed in chapter VIII articles 
50-56.
For this reason, KPC and Arutmin include OHS aspects in the Collective 
Labor Agreement (PKB) which is signed by the union and management.
Chapter 4 - Working time and attendance list
2.
Chapter 9 - Safety, equipment and work accidents
4.
Chapter 13 - Discipline and disciplinary action
OHS Organizational Structure
In the mining operations of the business units, the OHS aspect is 
managed by the Head of Mining Engineering.
The Mining Safety 
Committee consists of management, employees and contractors.
This committee is tasked with supervising and evaluating the 
management of Mining Safety in business operations, workforce 
contractors or work partners and guests who work in the 
operational area.
Endang Wawan
Kontraktor 
PT Darma 
Henwa
Ragil Winahyo
(PJO)
Anggota
Member
Amri W
M. Zely F
M.Irsya
Anggota
Member
Muslikun
M.Rizalludin
Gunawan
Anggota
Member
Galih
Robby
Anggota
Member
Andriansyah
Rhini R. P.
Anggota
Member
H.A.
(kali) / Conducting traffic monitoring for KPC vehicles and their contractors in the 
KPC and surrounding areas.
Conduct surveys and studies needed to conduct mining technical studies.
Conduct a study 
of slope stability analysis in the mine area, and regularly monitor soil movements.
(ls)
1
Arutmin has a Mining, Environmental and Community Safety Policy 
in place, which was published on 22 July 2019.
This policy aims to 
provide guidance for all employees in carrying out their work.
•	 Kampanye kesehatan kerja melalui pertemuan seperti health talk maupun media komunikasi lainnya seperti 
spanduk dan poster./ Occupational health campaigns through meetings such as health talk and other 
communication media such as banners and posters.
/Measurement and monitoring of the work environment.
/ Implementation of housekeeping programs at work by applying 
the principles of sorting, structuring, cleaning, habituating and disciplining.
/ 
Securing and guarding installations in dangerous areas and routine patrols by security forces to prevent things 
that are out of control that can threaten the safety of mining operations.
•	 Memastikan tenaga teknis yang mengoperasikan peralatan pertambangan memiliki kompetensi yang 
memadai melalui tes Surat Izin Mengemudi Perusahaan (SIMPER) dan Surat Izin Operasi (SIO)/ Ensure that 
technical personnel operating mining equipment have sufficient competence through the Company Driving 
License (SIMPER) and Operating License (SIO) tests.
