Our
business
mentioned in the Report consists of Bauxite
Mining, beneﬁciation process to produce
Metallurgical Grade Bauxite (MGB) and
Bauxite
Reﬁnery
process
of
MGB
to
produce Smelter Grade Alumina (SGA).
Report Guidelines
This Report is prepared in accordance with
regulations
of
the
Government
of
Indonesia:
Financial
Services
Authority
Regulation (POJK) No.
51/POJK.03/2017 on
Application
of
Sustainable
Finance
to
Financial Services Institution, Issuer and
Publicly Listed Companies, and Circular
Letter of Financial Services Authority (SOJK)
No.
16/SEOJK.04/2021
on
Form
and
Content of the Annual Report Issuer or
Public Company and the internationally
referred Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
Standards.
Strengthening our revenue stream – by focusing on applying 
responsible operations; and
2.
Product development and down streaming – by focusing on 
sustainable bauxite and circular business implementation.
In implementing the roadmap, we ensure that the Company 
will meet long-term sustainability by managing our operation 
in a balanced manner in all the aspects of ESG.
To ensure the long-term sustainability of the company, we manage the Company’s capital as 
explained in figure below.
The strategy mentioned is a guide for the company to make decisions.
1
Modal Sumber Daya
Manusia dalam 
bentuk pengetahuan, 
keterampilan, budaya, 
dan penghidupan 
masyarakat dalam 
sistem sosial
Human Capital
in the form of 
knowledge, skills, 
culture, and 
livelihoods of the 
community in the 
social system
3
Modal Finansial
Yang menjadi refleksi 
kesejahteraan dalam 
sistem perekonomian.
Conducting programed and scheduled training to ensure 
the expected level of competency level to create a healthy, 
safe, and comfortable work environment.
In 2022, paddy was planted 
in 6 Ha provided agricultural land with superior seeds, 
fertilizers, and agricultural facilities.
ecosystem, that strengthen capacity for adaption to climate 
change, extreme weather, drought, flooding, and other 
disasters and that progressively improve land and soil quality.
Promote 
development-oriented 
policies 
that 
support 
productive activities, decent job creation, entrepreneurship, 
creativity, and innovation, and encourage the formalization 
and growth of micro-, small- and medium-sized enterprises, 
including through access to financial services.
Ensure women’s full and effective participation and equal 
opportunities for leadership at all levels of decision making in 
political, economic, and public life.
By 2030, substantially reduce the number of deaths and 
illnesses from hazardous chemicals and air, water and soil 
pollution and contamination.
By 2030, achieve universal and equitable access to safe and 
affordable drinking water for all.
Protect labor rights and promote safe and secure working 
environments for all workers, including migrant workers, 
in particular women migrants, and those in precarious 
employment.
By 2030, ensure universal access to affordable, reliable, and 
modern energy services.
By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through 
prevention, reduction, recycling, and reuse.
Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related 
hazards and natural disasters in all countries.
5-year Cooperation with Gunung Palung National 
Park Program, as a form of forest protection and 
conservation, protect Proboscis monkey and Orangutan, 
covering an area of 3,980.33 Ha.
By 2030, ensure the conservation of mountain ecosystems, 
including their biodiversity, in order to enhance their 
capacity to provide benefits that are essential for sustainable 
development.
By 2025, prevent and significantly reduce marine pollution 
of all kinds, in particular from land-based activities, including 
marine debris and nutrient pollution.
Installation of Solar Panel with 53.1 kWp in CITA site 
office and 6 kWp in Jeletung Health Center.
TPB & Target / SDGs & Targets:
7.2 
Pada tahun 2030, meningkat secara substansial pangsa energi 
terbarukan dalam bauran energi global
By 2030, increase substantially the share of renewable energy 
in the global energy mix.
By 2030, double the global rate of improvement in energy 
efficiency.
We believe that a positive work environment is 
important to motivate and retain employees.
We provide all permanent and contracted 
employees 
with 
similar 
benefits, 
which 
include annual leave, parental leave and BPJS 
Healthcare and Social Security (as national 
insurance) program coverage.
At CITA, all permanent employees are 
provided with medical allowance for themselves 
and their families while contracted employees’ 
medical allowance are only available for 
themselves.
At WHW, permanent employees 
over superintendent level is entitled to private 
medical insurance service [401-2].
Employee Training [404-1, 404-2]
As part of our commitment to equip our 
employees with adequate knowledge and 
capacity, we carried out training in order to 
meet the Company’s strategic target.
We believe 
skilled employees enhance the organization’s 
human capital and contribute to employees’ 
satisfaction and improved performance.
The highest average of training hours 
in WHW is manager level with 0.07 hours.
In 2022, CITA and WHW have provided funds for facilitating of employee’s training 
of IDR 429,049,000 and IDR 164,297,995.
Hire of local workers in accordance with the required job 
competencies; and
3.
Maintain local wisdom and culture in each of the Company’s 
operation.
Comply with laws, regulations, and company’s commitment 
of Corporate Social Responsibility.
Reduce the social gap and the impact of environmental 
risk.
c.	
Improve the community capacity, develop the local 
institutions, 
and 
implement 
management 
with 
traditional cultural values.
d.	
Support National and International Commitment to 
reduce the emission of CO2 through the implementation 
of CSR Program in ESG.
Decrease of air quality, noise increase, deterioration of water surface quality, 
deterioration of seawater quality, job and business opportunities, social 
conflict, impact on public health, disruptions of fisherman’s activities.
2
Operasional 
Operational
Penurunan kualitas udara, penurunan kualitas air permukaan, penurunan 
kualitas air laut, peluang kerja dan usaha, konflik sosial, kesehatan umum, 
gangguan terhadap aktivitas nelayan, peningkatan kebisingan, penurunan 
kualitas air tanah, perubahan kuantitas air permukaan, perubahan pola 
mata pencaharian, penurunan sanitasi lingkungan
Deterioration of air quality, deterioration of water surface quality, 
deterioration of sea water quality, job and business opportunities, social 
conflict, public health, disruptions of fisherman’s activities, noise increase, 
decrease in groundwater quality, change in surface water quantity, change 
in livelihood patterns, decrease in environmental sanitation.
At WHW, we conduct impact assessment as 
stipulated in Environmental Impact Analysis 
Report (ANDAL), which is categorized into 
4 
phases: 
pre-construction, 
construction, 
operational, and post-operational phase.
This is an essential component to ensure we 
record and address all communities’ concerns in order to establish our CDP.
3/2020 on Amendment of Law No.4/2009 on Coal and 
Mineral Mining;
•	
Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources (MEMR) Regulation No.
41/2016 on Community 
Development and Empowerment on Coal and Mineral Mining Activities; and
•	
MEMR Ministerial Decree No.
1824/2018 on Guideline for Community Development and 
Empowerment Implementation.
Understanding the impact of our CDP activities is critical for informing our decisions on the design 
and scale of future programs.
41/2016 and its derivative of MEMR Ministerial Decree No.
Level of Real Income or Employment;
4.
Formation of Community Institutions that supports CDP; 
and
8.
Development of infrastructure that supports CDP.
This is due to the fact that in 2022, CITA and WHW are primarily concentrating on 
advancing CDP initiatives that have been executed previously.
By doing so, the costs involved in 
developing the CDP program are relatively lower compared to starting from scratch.
Success indicators of this 
program:
a.
Assistance in medical equipment and medicines to prevent 
Covid-19;
b.
Until 2022, 96 clean water facilities have been 
built.
In addition, CITA 
educates students to implement clean and 
healthy living behaviors.
CDP in Education
This program is implemented to contribute to achieving the SDGs Goal 4 – Quality Education.
The CDP that has been carried out by the company focuses on improving the infrastructure of 
student learning facilities and to improve the quality of human resources.
Success indicators of 
this program:
a.
Increase income for honorary and contract teachers to give motivation in teaching;
b.
CDP in Economic Improvement
The Company believes that creating a community with economic independence is the key to social 
investment and sustainable community development.
Building economically strong communities 
requires intensive assistance, especially at the initiation and strengthening stages.
Success Indicators of this program are:
a.
Creation of MSME businesses that promote local potential;
b.
This effort is aimed to shift 
the planting pattern and system of the community, from 
cultivation and land burning to a semi-mechanized paddy field 
farming system on sustainable agricultural land to increase 
the productivity of agricultural products.
CITA collaborates with 
the Government of North Kayong Regency in providing a 6 Ha 
sustainable agricultural land (phase 1), superior seeds, fertilizers, 
agricultural and infrastructure facilities.
In this sector, women play 
a significant role in promoting the economic 
growth.
Their contribution for MSME sector 
has a tremendous domino effect in creating 
opportunities, 
supporting 
the 
economy 
and family welfare.
Recognizing this great 
potential, the CDP program initiates the 
establishment of business group driven by 
women named “Krumpe” and “Raja Herbal”.
As part of WHW’s efforts to improve the local 
economy, the CSR department has established 
the 
‘Kelompok 
Harapan 
Berkembang’ 
program.
The CSR team is actively 
involved in conducting workshops and training 
sessions to support this program.
The group 
produces and sells rice in the operational area 
and surrounding regions, generating profits of 
up to tens of millions for the community.
243.676.100
CDP in Infrastructure [203-1]
Infrastructure is vital for the sustainability of 
a region.
The purpose of this program 
is to provide access and build public facilities 
and infrastructures such as roads, electricity 
installation 
to 
accelerate 
communities’ 
economic activities.
Easier access for village community to 
public facilities such as schools, markets, 
and village offices;
b.
As for WHW, most of its investment is 
designated for the improvement of Provincial 
roads amounting to Rp.
CDP in Social Culture 
The diversity of social and cultural interaction plays an important role in social life while Kalimantan 
is an island with great cultural wealth.
Success indicators of this program:
a.	
Organize annual customary events that are run smoothly by the community;
b.
For WHW, the support is focused on assistance for local 
community traditional events.
In 2022, the investment for this program by CITA is increased about 
18% from the previous year of IDR 76,105,000 which focuses on waste management program and 
water conservation through re-plantation to conserve the water reservoir.
Success indicators of this program:
a.
Community involvement in the planning process, realization, monitoring, and evaluation of 
environmental programs.
CITA interacts 
continuously with the community and related stakeholders 
when a complaint arises.
The Public Relation Department in 
each site receives each grievance and follow up.
As for WHW, there were 31 communities’ grievance received in 2022.
Mediation effort was employed to stop the protest.
To achieve this, we 
consistently enforce all relevant stakeholders 
with Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) 
standard operating procedures.
Occupational Health and Safety 
[403-1, 403-2, 403-3]
CITA implements OHS adhering to The Mining 
Safety 
Management 
System 
(SMKP), 
as 
stipulated in the Ministerial Decree of MEMR 
No.
185K/37.04/DJB/2019 and No.
CITA 
continuously evaluates SMKP implementation 
effectiveness through regular internal audits 
by certified internal auditors.
100% of our 
employees, contractors, and contracted workers 
are covered under these systems.
CITA’s Air Upas and Sandai working areas 
have consistently applied the OHS procedures 
for mining activities.
The Head of Mining 
Engineering and Management in each site 
has the full responsibility to implement 
OHS management, supported by the HSE 
Department who responsible with the daily 
OHS functions and operations.
At the Corporate level, CITA conducts OHS 
meetings on a monthly basis with subsidiaries 
as part of operational aspect and performance 
evaluation discussion.
CITA’s OHS policy is intended to:
1.
Prevention of minor or major injuries;
3.
Prevntion of property damage from 
accident(s), operational errors, lack o 
supervision and/or lack of maintenance;
4.
Reduce morbidity rate and loss working 
days due to illness and implement health 
promotion programs for employees and 
contractors;
5.
The Company and its employees and 
contractors have a shared responsibility to 
work safely in accordance with health and 
safety procedures and standards;
6.
Creating a conducive environment of 
construction 
activities 
or 
production 
operations 
where 
employees 
and 
contractors can work efficiently, safely and 
free from activities that will result in loss or 
construction and/or work cessation.
This principle is enhancing 
the level of safety management effectively to 
prevent the occurrence of any unsafe situation, 
damage and economic loss, and to ensure a 
safe and healthy workplace for our employees.
The WHW’s OHS policy contains:
pekerja kontrak [403-8].
Produce an occupational safety and health 
program to support the implementation 
of the Occupational Health and Safety 
Management System’s policy.
Involve all workers in efforts to set up and 
develop Occupational Health and Safety 
Management System.
Have 
a 
commitment 
to 
implement 
the 
Occupational 
Health 
and 
Safety 
Management System’s policy to all workers 
to be realized and understood.
Effort preventive action to occupational 
accidents 
and 
occupational 
diseases 
for all workers and parties in the work 
environment.
Carry out continuous improvement in 
Occupational Safety and Health
8.
The Risk Impact Assessment includes risk categorizing and strategies development on how to 
reduce accidents and property damage.
The OHS Risk Management is applied based on the principle of Risk Control Hierarchy, as illustrated 
in Figure below.
The analysis is reviewed 
which serves as a reference for management to 
develop programs, inspections, observations 
to improve OHS performance as part of 
risk mitigations.
The Company requires all 
accidents, hazards, and hazardous situations 
that occur at any level (from employee to 
external workers in all operational activities) to 
be reported in accordance with the applicable 
regulations.
An investigation team is then established to 
investigate and provide recommendations 
related 
to 
the 
accidents, 
to 
prevent 
reoccurrence of similar accidents in the 
future.
In addition to this, WHW ensures that all reports related to hazard identification, 
assessment, and OHS risk control are properly maintained.
Head of Safety and Technology designates internal 
investigation team led by a manager or superintendent from 
other section.
Evidence at the scene of accident will be collected and secured 
in a container.
Investigation will be performed immediately by an officer 
appointed by the Ministry of Industry.
Contractor Participation [403-4]
Most of mining operational work is performed 
by contractors.
In 2022, there are 24 Contractors 
company who own Mining Business License 
(IUJP) in Air Upas and Sandai.
The roles of 
contractors include soil tripping, mineral mining, 
transportation, loading, survey and mining 
consulting, and mining facility construction.
Both parties are responsible to comply with 
relevant OHS requirement;
2.
Contractor to comply with all regulations 
set by CITA as outlined in the MEMR Decree 
No.
1827K/30/MEM/2018 including:
a.	
Feasibility Test Mechanism for Units 
and Work Facilities;
b.
OHS Management by contractors is regulated 
in the Contractor Management System – 
Occupational Health Safety and Environment 
(CMS 
–OHSE) 
which 
is 
communicated 
and implemented by the contractor.
Management and Implementation system;
2.
Regulatory compliance; and
3.
OHS Training [403-5]
To equip our employees with the adequate capacity for OHS, we provide a wide range of OHS 
training programs in 2022 to all divisions and departments at CITA.
Promotion of worker health 
[403-6]
We are fully committed to maintaining health 
and safety of our employees.
At CITA, both in Air Upas and Sandai sites have 
clinics complemented by medical personnel 
(doctors, nurses).
Similar to CITA, at 
WHW, a 24/7 clinic is accessible with availability 
of 3 doctors, nurses and midwives that respond 
to emergencies in the operational areas.
Work-related injuries [403-9]
At CITA, we have our designated officers 
to monitor the performance of our OHS 
implementation, tracking key indicators to 
identify areas for improvement and ensure the 
effective implementation of our programs.
Construct road separators and signs, install 
road cat eyes with SNI standards, and 
install warning and information boards on 
roads that are straight, long, and wide in all 
hauling road areas.
CITA commits to 
conduct mining and processing activities in 
a manner that minimizes adverse impacts on 
the environment, supports protection of the 
natural environment and ecosystems through 
responsible 
environmental 
stewardship, 
strong management systems and continuous 
improvement.
In conducting its operations, CITA referred to 
the Environmental Policies which was updated 
on 20th August 2022 for CITA, 22nd March 2022 
for WHW.
Environmental Policy [3-3]
To 
strengthen 
the 
implementation 
of 
environment-based 
activities, 
we 
have 
issued an Environmental Policy that contains 
general strategies related to environmental 
management.
The contents of the 
environmental policy are: 
CITA:
1.
Contribute to tackling climate change;
3.
Land clearing is only conducted where 
strictly required and accompanied by 
measures that minimize the disturbance of 
biodiversity;
5.
Company, its employees and contractors 
are responsible for maintaining cleanliness 
in the work and living area; and
7.
Comply with environmental laws and 
company policies;
2.
Have commitment:
a.	
Assess 
environmental 
impact 
of 
all current and future operational 
activities;
b.
Manage 
and 
conserve 
efficiently 
(especially energy, water, and land 
resources);
c.	
Provide 
resources 
sufficiently 
in 
developing 
and 
maintaining 
an 
environmental management system to 
improve environmental performance.
The risk management carried out includes an assessment of the environmental risks that can 
occur from an activity.
The key aspects in implementing the Environmental Protection 
Program are described below.
AMDAL consists of RKL and RPL.
Detail of RKL – RPL is related to management 
and control activity plan for environmental 
aspects which includes pollution prevention, 
waste management, water management and 
conservation, residue bauxite and red mud 
control, climate change risk assessment, 
biodiversity, and protected areas.
The results of RKL – RPL that have been carried 
out are reported to the relevant government 
institutions.
Currently, CITA and WHW are 
equipped with EIA documents, Environmental 
Monitoring document, and applicable permits 
with clean and clear status from MEMR.
CITA 
and WHW strive to handle all waste materials 
directed into disposal area, designated for each 
type or source.
Hazardous waste is collected and stored in a licensed Hazardous Waste Temporary Storage facility 
on site in accordance with Government Regulation No.
[306-1] 
Skema Pengelolaan Limbah B3
Hazardous Waste Management Schematic
Bauxite Residue[306-2]
Bauxite residue is a by-product of the processing of bauxite ore into MGB through screening, 
washing and drying processes.
The 
composition of the bauxite residue consists of water, soil, and clay.
The volume of bauxite residue 
produced ranges from 10,000 -– 30,000 m3/day.
The settling pond is built on Reinforced Soil 
Foundations (RSF).
To ensure the settling ponds function properly, the company conducted RSF'’s 
geotechnical, hydrological, and hydrogeological investigations to design ponds and embankments 
that are safe and stable for the long term.
The settling ponds at each site consider the water runoff 
capacity, equipped with emergency drains, infiltration points and drainage channels.
The landfill was built to accommodate 
red mud and coal ash generated.
The landfill 
is 
covered 
by 
geotextile 
drainage 
and 
geomembrane bulkheads, making it safe for the 
surrounding environment.
In an effort to reduce 
dependence on landfills, WHW is currently 
conducting studies for the utilization of red 
mud and coal ash.
The treatments carried out to manage the 
waste are:
1.
Mud from alumina processing tank is 
cooled down from 140°C to 106°C and 
separated (solids from liquid) in the settler.
To minimize 
waste generation, the Company runs a 3R 
(reuse, reduce and recycle) program.
Reducing domestic waste accumulated in the 
disposal, the WHW CSR team conducted a 
program to utilize employee canteen waste 
to feed the pig farm in Silingan Village.
This 
program is re-implemented on July 2022 
because WHW enforced lockdown during the 
pandemic so that there were restrictions on 
interaction with the surrounding community.
Waste Generated [306-3] [306-5]
Data of waste generated are monitored and collected in office, 
operation facilities, living quarter, canteen, and warehouse.
In 2022 there was an increase in the amount of waste generated 
due to the increase in production.
This indicates that the waste 
management carried out by CITA is running effectively.
The decrease in waste intensity is due 
to improvements in maximizing raw materials and reusing by-
products produced in each process.
Both CITA 
and WHW are not located in water scarce areas based on the 
World Resource Institute (WRI) Water Atlas which was accessed 
on January 15th, 2022.
Tackling the challenges of water scarcity and wastewater 
treatment has been part of our strategy.
As a shared and finite 
resource, it is our responsibility to address all water-related 
challenges, including those that arise due to climate change.
The concept of circular water management has been 
implemented at the Air Upas site and Sandai site.
The water will be stored in the reservoir before pumped 
to the washing plant.
34/2009 on Wastewater Quality 
Standard for Bauxite Ore Mining Business and/or Activities.
Water is 
treated at the Water Treatment Plant (WTP) for a reverse osmosis process with the aim of removing 
water contaminants by pushing water under pressure through a semi-permeable membrane.
Then, 
water is distributed to operational, living quarter, and hydrant pond.
To manage wastewater, WHW has 3 Wastewater Treatment Plants (WWTP).
Sources of WWTP 1 
and 2 are from operational water and WWTP 3 is from domestic water.
Threated wastewater from 
WWTP 1 and 2 will be reused for operational and the treated wastewater from WWTP 3 will be 
discharged to Tengar River and Parit Nipah.
1466/KPTS/M/2021 and 
for groundwater withdrawal licenses refer to 
the Decree of DPMPTSP Head West Kalimantan 
Province No.
CITA is genuinely concerned about water 
management; surface water withdrawal is 
calculated so there is no excessive water 
withdrawal.
The amount of water withdrawn is the same as 
the amount of water consumed and no water is 
discharged to the water body.
CITA’s water consumption is sourced from river 
water and groundwater.
In 2022 
groundwater usage increased because water in red mud pond 
and water inventory in WWTP was decreasing.
The 
monitoring result shows that the quality of emissions released has fulfilled the requirement as 
stipulated in Ministerial Regulation of Environment and Forestry No.
21/2008 on the Quality of 
Emissions from Stationary Sources for Thermal Power Plant Activities as shown in Table below.
The 
monitoring results are reported regularly to the Ministry.
In 2022 there were decreased emissions 
load of NO2, SO2, and total particulate.
Measurement of emission load is only conducted at WHW 
because there is a Power Plant in the area.
These management and monitoring activities are a form of corporate responsibility to the 
environment and compliance with applicable regulations.
This 
principle guides the company to develop safe conservation areas that support the flora and fauna 
living in the area.
[304-1]
Based on EIA, CITA operation area in Sandai and 
Air Upas are not located in or adjacent to, or 
intersect with protected species, both arboreal, 
terrestrial, and aquatic biota.
Baseline biodiversity data collection and 
preliminary secondary data studies were carried 
out before construction began.
These studies 
identified Ramsar sites, Endemic Bird Areas 
(EBAs), Important Bird and Biodiversity Areas 
(IBAs), and existing evaluations of water quality, 
habitats and ecosystems, and invasive species.
In managing biodiversity, CITA collaborates with Gunung Palung National Park Center 
to strengthen the function and conservation of the Gunung Palung National Park.
This 
collaboration involves relevant stakeholders in Ketapang Regency and North Kayong Regency, 
West Kalimantan Province.
The cooperation location is in Batu Barat National Park Management 
Resort (“RPTN”), Matan RPTN and Sempurna RPTN covering an area of 3,980.33 Ha.
The scopes 
of this cooperation are:
A.
Institutional strengthening cooperation support through:
1.
Capacity building of personnel at Gunung Palung National Park through comparative 
studies on SMART RBM implementation, SMART RBM training and seminar on Bekantan 
(proboscis monkey) conservation.
Provision and maintenance of facilities and infrastructure for the management of 
Gunung Palung National Park, including facilities and infrastructure for forest protection 
and supporting facilities and infrastructure.
Support regional protection cooperation through:
1.
Securing Orangutan and Bekantan habitats through security patrols, installation of 
signboards at area boundaries and dissemination.
Controlling forest and land fires through prevention and control of forest and land 
fires.
C.	
Support for cooperation in preserving flora and fauna through monitoring of Bekantan and 
monitoring of wildlife habitats.
D.	
Support for community empowerment cooperation through economic business assistance, 
community group facilitation, community group training and conservation counseling.
This planting aims 
to reduce the level of abrasion on the seacoast.
In general, the BAP 
contains: 
1.
Biodiversity baseline description of the activity area;
2.
Assessment of Critical Habitats, formulation of biodiversity management priorities, and of key 
diversity conservation efforts; and
3.
Detail of the monitoring and evaluation programs for biodiversity conservation.
WHW has implemented the BAP through operational activities.
CITA is planning to conduct a climate change assessment on mining and refinery 
activities including climate modeling to understand climate change risks to operations.
To process MGB raw materials into ready-to-sell SGA products, some supporting materials are 
needed to support the production process are stated in the table below.
This increase in fuel usage 
is compensated for by a double increase in 
production capacity compared to the previous 
year.
This fuel is a part of a greenhouse gas reduction initiative program 
implemented by CITA and WHW.
The combustion of FAME is classified as carbon neutral, which 
means that only 70% of the Biosolar contribution to greenhouse gas emission.
Sandai site is directly adjacent to Gunung Palung National Park.
The thickness of the OB is adjusted to the 
presence of ore at each site.
For Sandai site, the average OB 
thickness is 3.96 m while the ore is 4.52 m thick, and for Air Upas 
Site, the average overburden (OB) thickness is 1.6 m while the 
ore is 1.62 m thick.
industry is crucial to reduce emissions and mitigate the effects 
of climate change.
The company conducts reclamation and 
revegetation as part of the restoration activities, with the specific 
purpose of utilizing the former mining area into productive land 
for the community and the environment in a sustainable manner.
The planning stage, operational and reclamation have an 
interconnected relationship, where planning and operational 
activities are organized to facilitate reclamation activities.
Before 
mining begins, planning is carried out by mapping pit conditions 
and topsoil management methods.
After the bauxite extraction is completed (mine out), the former 
mining pit can be immediately covered with the removed soil.
Reclamation activities start with landscaping, starting from 
regrading to making drainage channels then continues with 
revegetation of the mine out land.
Reclamation areas are considered uneconomical and 
no longer possible to be mined.
The plants selected as reclamation plants by CITA are pioneer 
plants and Multi-Purpose Tree Species (MPTS) plants including 
rubber, fruits, and palm trees.
As of December 2022, both Sandai Site and Air Upas Site conduct 
reclaimation an accumulative area of 1,581 hectares (2020-2022).
We measured that solar panels have 
generated 36,220 kWh of renewable energy in 2022.
It is anticipated that both Sandai and Air Upas 
solar-PV projects will reduce diesel consumption by over 600 kiloliters over the 25-year projected 
project life.
Solar Power Plants (PLTS) have been built at the Air Upas Site and 
Sandai Site offices.
The Air Upas Site Office PLTS was commissioned 
in Q1 2022 with a capacity of 19.1 kWp and Sandai Site Office was 
commissioned in Q3 2022 with a capacity of 34 kWp.
In 2022, we generated a total revenue of IDR 5,696 billion, over a 24% increase as compared 
to 2021.
This was largely supported by a significant increase in production compared to the 
previous year.
Financial Assistance Received from Government [201-4]
We prioritize efficiency in tax payments while ensuring strict compliance with prevailing tax 
obligations and regulations.
CITA obtains incentive on payment relief of Income Tax clause 25 (PPh 
25) installment - monthly installment in 2020-2021 by government.
Our 
Code of Conduct, Anti-money Laundering, 
Anti-corruption, Whistleblowing policies are 
regularly communicated to all employees.
Annual General Meeting of 
Shareholders (AGMS) 
GMS is the highest decision-making body at the 
Company to make decisions on matters related 
to the Company’s business and operation.
Melaksanakan 
tanggung 
jawab 
sosial 
dan hukum terhadap masyarakat dan 
remuneration for Board of Directors (BOD) and 
Board of Commissioners (BOC), appointment 
of independent auditors and delegation of 
authority to BODs to follow up on matters 
discussed and approved at the AGMS.
Board of Commissioners (BOC)
This body is responsible for supervising and 
provide advice to BOD in running the Company.
The BOC has authorities to:
1.
Oversee the policies of BOD in carrying out 
the Company’s business activities;
2.
Prepare an accountability report for BOC 
which will be part of the Annual Report and 
jointly approved by the Shareholders at the 
GMS.
Board of Directors (BOD)
This Body has full responsibility to manage the 
Company in line with our vision and mission for 
the benefit of the Company.
BOD’s responsibilities include:
1.
Fully manage all actions and duties by 
the Company to perform its business in 
accordance with relevant regulations and 
the Articles of Association;
2.
Identify and manage risks involved in implementing the 
Company’s strategy and achieve long-term goals; and
5.
Manage and review the effectiveness of internal control 
system and risk management.
Assist the supervisory duties and function of BOC, particularly 
related to internal control system, financial reports and 
external auditors;
2.
Manage the ESG aspects, carried out by BOD and BOC with 
their respective areas of responsibility; and
3.
Ethics [2-15]
To ensure effective implementation of GCG policies, at CITA 
we establish “Code of Conduct” policy consisting of business 
ethics and values of the Company that were prepared to 
make conformity of mindset to “create a common mindset” in 
accordance with GCG is created to achieve the business goal.
For Shareholders – to achieve the level of profitability 
expected by Shareholders while taking into account the 
interest of the Company; and
3.
Ratio of Entry Level Wage [202-1]
At CITA, all remuneration and employee benefits are set exceeding the Regional Minimum 
Wage (UMR) of West Kalimantan, as stipulated in Ministry of Labor Regulation No.
As a result, the percentage of women wage in the 
entry-level workforce is higher than men.
But it does not rule out the possibility that men’s salaries 
are higher than women’s when viewed in detail.
We apply “Selection and Capacity Building of Suppliers or Vendors Policy” for our procurement 
and purchasing of suppliers and goods.
The Company is assisted by the Purchasing Department 
in monitoring the procurement process and Project Controller in overseeing the service work 
process.
Anti-corruption Policy [205-1, 205-2, 205-3]
We are committed to conducting our business ethically and with 
integrity.
The Company is guided by “Anti-Corruption policy” that have 
been approved by board in compliance with Government of 
Indonesia Law No.
Type of activities categorized as corruption: 1) Gratification 
by private or public entities, 2) facilitation payment, 3) Gifts, 
4) Hospitality expenses, 5) Promotional expenses, 6) Political 
contribution and any charitable contributions.
At CITA, diversity and inclusion are integral parts of our culture.
In 2022, 70.3% of CITA and 
84.7% of WHW employees are local hired from West Kalimantan Province.
As for turnover, 137 employees left CITA, resulting in a turnover rate of 
11.28% and 344 employees left WHW, which results in a turnover rate or 9.8%.
On the other hand, our HR Department is working on suitable measures to ensure that 
we maintain our image as an attractive employer in the future, such as offering individual training 
courses, performance-based remuneration, dan medical insurance.
Employee Diversity [2-8, 405-1]
The table below is the total workforce 
categorized based on gender, age, and position.
We are 
cognizant that this number are not sufficient 
to achieve gender diversity where extractive 
industry is commonly a male-dominated sector.
We employ 
a wide range of individuals based on their skills 
and experience, ranging from fresh graduates 
to industry professionals/experts with age <30 
and >50.
Activities at CITA’s head 
office include employee gatherings and sports 
event such as badminton, billiard, futsal, and 
football.
But it does not rule out the possibility that men salaries are 
higher than women.
At CITA, we are committed to providing a safe and conducive environment for our customers, 
visitors, and employees to thrive.
Whistleblowing System Policy [2-16, 2-18, 2-26]
As part of our HR policy, we have grievance and a whistleblowing mechanism to report any instances 
of violations against any employees.
The scope of violations includes deviations from applicable 
rules and regulations, violations of Company’s policies and regulations, misuse of position for 
personal interests, discrimination, bullying, extortion, and fraudulent acts.
All these grievances have been fully 
resolved.
Freedom of Association [2-30, 407-1]
We support freedom of association at CITA and WHW.
In 2021, through the Head of Manpower and 
Transmigration Agency in Ketapang Regency, a bipartite collaboration institution, PT Cita Mineral 
Investindo Tbk Site Sandai (Sandai LKS Bipartite), has been registered.
In 2020, WHW establishes a Cooperation Agreement between the Company and Workers Union of 
Indonesian Prosperous Labor (PK SBSI) WHW Alumina Refinery.
The union is free, 
open, independent, democratic, and responsible for protecting the rights and interest of workers/
labors and their families.
The Union has been registered at Manpower and Transmigration Agency 
in Ketapang Regency.
Bauxite ore extraction activities are 
carried out by mining business line for supply raw materials such as MGB which is needed by 
processing industry to be processed into SGA which is run by an associated, WHW.
These impacts include 
socio-economic changes, welfare, income, opportunities, social inequality, and quality of life 
due to changes in land tenure.
CITA is responsible for participating in managing social impacts to minimize negative impacts 
and promote community development.
The Government establishes operational and reclamation standards for all aspects of open 
pit and underground mining operations.
We have developed mine reclamation and 
rehabilitation strategies for our concession areas.
Refers to Government Regulation No.
Further, as an implementation for the 
reclamation and post-mining activities, we are obliged to place a reclamation guarantee and 
post-mining guarantee in accordance with the discretion of the MEMR or other relevant 
government authority.
Mining activities and facilities are intensive users of electricity, which presently derive from 
our primarily diesel generators.
The Company obtains water 
supply primarily by recycling from our processing plant and collecting seasonal rainfall in 
storage ponds.
Our business 
is subject to the extensive environmental controls and regulations in Indonesia, particularly 
the Job Creation Law - Government Regulation No.
22 of 2021 on Environmental Protection 
and Management, as recently amended by the Job Creation Law, and its implementing 
regulations.
We recognize that mining operation 
has impacts on the natural environment.
We are committed to conducting our mining 
operations in a manner that minimizes negative impacts on the environment and supports 
protection of the natural environment through responsible mining.
All operational activities are carried out with full responsibility by paying attention to 
environmental protection aspects by involving all existing stakeholders.
Business process
During the previous financial year, the primary operations of the company involved the 
extraction and refinement of bauxite to create MGB, which was then further processed to 
produce SGA .
Raw bauxite 
from mining undergoes a beneficiation process to obtain bauxite with 45% to 48% Al2O3 
content.
This MGB is then transported to the alumina refinery plant as raw material for SGA 
production.
At the processing plant, the Bayer Process is applied to obtain SGA from MGB.
SGA, the raw material for metallic aluminum production, has a 98.6% Al2O3 content.
From the beginning of the process, CITA involved stakeholders who have the rights for land 
in discussions of long-term mining plans, from land acquisition process to post-mining.
We recognize that mining operation 
has impacts on the natural environment.
We are committed to conducting our mining 
operations in a manner that minimizes negative impacts on the environment and supports 
protection of the natural environment through responsible mining.
All operational activities are carried out with full responsibility by paying attention to 
environmental protection aspects by involving all existing stakeholders.
Business process
During the previous financial year, the primary operations of the company involved the 
extraction and refinement of bauxite to create MGB, which was then further processed to 
produce SGA .
Raw bauxite 
from mining undergoes a beneficiation process to obtain bauxite with 45% to 48% Al2O3 
content.
This MGB is then transported to the alumina refinery plant as raw material for SGA 
production.
At the processing plant, the Bayer Process is applied to obtain SGA from MGB.
SGA, the raw material for metallic aluminum production, has a 98.6% Al2O3 content.
From the beginning of the process, CITA involved stakeholders who have the rights for land 
in discussions of long-term mining plans, from land acquisition process to post-mining.
We recognize that mining operation 
has impacts on the natural environment.
We are committed to conducting our mining 
operations in a manner that minimizes negative impacts on the environment and supports 
protection of the natural environment through responsible mining.
All operational activities are carried out with full responsibility by paying attention to 
environmental protection aspects by involving all existing stakeholders.
Business process
During the previous financial year, the primary operations of the company involved the 
extraction and refinement of bauxite to create MGB, which was then further processed to 
produce SGA .
Raw bauxite 
from mining undergoes a beneficiation process to obtain bauxite with 45% to 48% Al2O3 
content.
This MGB is then transported to the alumina refinery plant as raw material for SGA 
production.
At the processing plant, the Bayer Process is applied to obtain SGA from MGB.
SGA, the raw material for metallic aluminum production, has a 98.6% Al2O3 content.
From the beginning of the process, CITA involved stakeholders who have the rights for land 
in discussions of long-term mining plans, from land acquisition process to post-mining.
Customers
Customers of MGB and SGA that is produced by associate (WHW) are internal and external 
customers.
So, there is no product health and safety 
evaluation or product withdrawal from circulation.
Customers
Customers of MGB and SGA that is produced by associate (WHW) are internal and external 
customers.
So, there is no product health and safety 
evaluation or product withdrawal from circulation.
which is why CITA management has focused on continuous 
improvement.
Ore-processing at CITA has range of production capacity and technology improvement.
Capacity 
upscale of both the washing pond and trommel system is expected to be an innovation for 
cleaner production.
CITA employees’ skill in identifying potential hazard and natural disaster is enhanced by participation 
in Basarnas workshop.
