Growth is defined as business development coupled with 
efficiency and accountability by maintaining compliance 
with regulations, meeting stakeholder demands and 
managing Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) 
aspects as the Company’s contribution to sustainable 
development.
Financial Capital 
which reflects welfare 
in the economic 
system
1
3
2
4
5
Komitmen CITA
1.
CITA’s Commitment
1.
Recognize and adapt to international sustainability 
frameworks where possible as part of our global 
contribution and collaboration.
CITA’s Sustainability Strategies
24
PT.
Develop and implement quality management system, 
follow the general instruction, procedure and work 
standards on cita working area.
Conduct programmed and scheduled training to 
ensure the expected level of competency level in 
order to create a healthy, safe and comfortable work 
environment.
The selection of material ESG topics involves CITA 
sustainability team, which represents all operational 
activities and is a proxy for relevant stakeholders, that 
identifies ESG aspects that are appropriate to the context 
of the Company’s activities.
CITA conducts impact 
assessments based on the size and scale of both actual 
and potential impacts on sustainable development.
Material ESG topics are topics that have a high impact 
assessment and stakeholder demands in the materiality 
matrix, as illustrated below.
Our commitment to 
sustainability is based on the Company’s values which 
include Humility, Achievement Oriented, Respect for Each 
Individual, Integrity, Teamwork, and Accountability.
Komitmen keberlanjutan CITA
CITA’s Sustainability Commitments
Meningkatkan dan 
melestarikan kualitas 
lingkungan
Improve and conserve 
environmental quality 
Menghormati dan melindungi 
hak asasi manusia, termasuk 
berkontribusi terhadap 
pembangunan manusia dan 
keragaman gender
Respect and protect human 
rights, including to contribute 
human development and gender 
diversity
Mematuhi hukum dan 
peraturan
Comply to law and regulation
CITA’s Sustainability Strategies
28
PT.
CITA’s Sustainability Strategies
32
PT.
As a major domestic supplier of aluminum ore, CITA 
is committed to participating in the development and 
improvement of the nation’s welfare.
With our business 
strategy, the Company increases added value through 
searching for reserves and maintaining product supply in 
an efficient and sustainable manner.
The high demand and increase in production capacity 
opens opportunities for the Company to continue to 
grow and optimize production and meet both domestic 
and global demands.
In 2021, CITA recorded an 5.38% 
increase in sales from Rp.
4.34 trillion to Rp.
CITA’s net profit decreased slightly from 649.92 billion 
rupiah in 2020 to 568.35 billion rupiah in 2021 or 
decreased by 12.55%.
Profit that can be distributed to 
owners of the parent entity is 568.35 billion rupiah, which 
is a slightly  decreased by 12.55% from 2020.
Economic benefits from CITA activities are distributed to 
stakeholders related to business activities.
The Company 
is committed to encouraging national economic growth 
through the distribution of economic benefits to 
stakeholders.
Other than capital goods 
investment, CITA prioritizes the purchase of goods and 
services from local and national suppliers who can meet 
the purchasing criteria and requirements.
CITA’s purchasing practices are based on the ‘Policy 
On Selection and Capacity Building of Suppliers or 
Vendors’ as a reference in carrying out procurement 
and purchasing.
The supplier 
selection mechanism includes assessment, registration, 
evaluation of requirements fulfillment, price comparison 
and quality type of supply, negotiations, and special 
mechanisms such as tenders.
In selecting suppliers/vendors, the Company is assisted by 
the Purchasing Division which is responsible in overseeing 
the procurement process for goods/services in the 
Company and a Project Controller in charge of overseeing 
the service work process.
Customers of MGB and SGA that produced by associate 
are internal and external customers.
so there is 
no product health and safety evaluation or product 
withdrawal from circulation.
Pelanggan
Customers
PEMASARAN PRODUK MGB 2021 (VOLUME PENJUALAN)
SALES OF MGB IN 2021
PEMASARAN PRODUK SGA* 2021 (VOLUME PENJUALAN)
SALES OF SGA IN 2021
86,73 %
94,29%
PASAR EKSPOR 
Export Market
PASAR EKSPOR
Export Market
13,27%
5,71%
PASAR DOMESTIK 
Domestic Market 
PASAR DOMESTIK 
Domestic Market 
*penjualan oleh entitas asosiasi WHW
*sale by associate WHW
Economic Added Value
36
PT.
The Company’s economic performance in 2021 is 
considered on positive trend, from distribution of 
economic benefits.
In 2021, the Company recorded an 
economic benefits allocation of IDR 1.306.119.756.117,00, 
or increase of 20% from the previous year.
248.374.935.309
Rp  256.999.405.461
6
Persentase pembelian dari pemasok lokal
Percentage of procurement from local suppliers
39,99%
40,87%
29,96%
Economic Added Value
38
PT.
Prevention and efforts to minimize negative 
environmental impacts are the responsibility of the 
Company’s operations and contractors working in the 
operational area.
Dampak Lingkungan
Environmental Impact
Studi Kelayakan 
Feasibility Study
Penambangan
Mining
Eksplorasi
Exploration
Konstruksi
Construction
Kegiatan 
Pascatambang
Post-mining 
Activity
SIKLUS KEGIATAN PERTAMBANGAN DAN PENGOLAHAN MINERAL
CYCLE OF MINING AND PROCESSING MINERAL
3  | Lingkungan
Penyelidikan 
Umum 
General 
Investigation
Pengolahan 
dan Pemurnian
Processing and 
Refinement
Pengangkutan 
dan Penjualan
Transporting 
and selling
41
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
CITA is strongly committed to implementing sustainable 
development based on economic, environmental, and 
social pillars.
The Company implements specific policies in 
the environmental sector which include:
1.
Execute land clearing operations only as needed 
based on mine plan and conduct reclamation once 
mining is completed (mine-out).
Maintain order and cleanliness in the operational, 
support, infrastructure, and living areas.
Coordinate with all of our employees and work 
partners in carrying out environmental protection.
The key aspects in implementing the 
Environmental Protection Program are described below.
Currently, both 
of Air Upas and Sandai activities are equipped with 
EIA documents, Enviromental Monitoring document, 
applicable permits with clean and clear status from the 
Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources.
EIA document for mining activities contains a 
management and control activity plan for environmental 
aspects which includes pollution prevention, waste 
management, water management and conservation, red 
1
2
3  | Lingkungan
43
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
2021
2020
2019
TOTAL
Air Upas
Rp   10.785.734.941
Rp   35.525.066.451
Rp   65.931.624.632
Rp   112.242.426.024
Sandai
Rp     4.031.084.233
Rp     1.681.698.055
Rp     1.027.348.862
Rp       6.740.131.150
Program Air Bersih 
Clean Water Program
(Site Sandai)
Rp        909.970.750
Rp     1.172.380.000
n/a
Rp       2.082.350.750
BIAYA LINGKUNGAN (RUPIAH)
Environmental Costs (IDR)
mud control, climate change risk assessment, biodiversity 
and protected areas.
Based on 
the applicable provision, both of the company’s mine 
sites have allocated costs in accordance with regulatory 
approval.
Environmental costs include costs related to 
environmental management, monitoring, and preservation 
efforts in accordance with the Work Plan and Budget 
approved by the relevant agency.
Environmental cost 
components include 
(1)	 environmental management costs, 
(2)	 environmental quality management, 
(3)	 environmental monitoring, 
(3)	 environmental consultants and training, 
(4)	 special day commemorations, 
(5)	 subcontractors, 
(6)	 reclamation and environmental operations, 
(7)	 equipment procurement, and 
(8)	 training.
Accordance to company’s commitment, land 
restoration consisting of reclamation and revegetation 
which aim to utilize the former mining area into 
productive land for the community and the environment 
in the future on a sustainable manner.
Keanekaragaman Hayati
Biodiversity
Open-pit mining has an impact on land change and 
biodiversity.
This aspect has been studied in the 
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA).
Based on the 
results of the biodiversity study, all areas in Sandai and Air 
Upas Mining Business Permit are not located in, adjacent 
to, or intersect with protected species, both arboreal, 
terrestrial, and aquatic biota.
At the land clearing stage, the risk is a significant change 
in flora, fauna, and their habitat.
The risk mitigation 
implemented is to carry out land clearing in stages and 
minimize land clearing for the construction of roads, 
infrastructure, and mining sites.
Land restoration
The risk to biodiversity are ore washing and the 
arrangement of run-off water, especially to local rivers.
Risk mitigation in these activities is carried out by making 
residue settling ponds that are interconnected and 
forming a circular-loop system at each site so that water 
can be recycled and minimize the flow of wastewater to 
bodies of water.
After the bauxite extraction is completed 
(mine out), the former mining pit can be immediately 
covered with the removed soil.
Revegetation activities refer to the reclamation plan 
document based on Government Regulation Number 78 
of 2010 on the reclamation and post-mining.
Article 5 
describes the preparation of a post-mining plan based 
on a feasibility study and environmental documents 
approved by the authorized agency.
Reclamation areas are considered as 
uneconomical area and no longer possible to be mined.
The 
plants selected as reclamation plants by CITA are pioneer 
plants and Multi-Purpose Tree Species (MPTS) plants 
including rubber, fruits, and palm trees.
Planting Land Cover Crop (LCC) is carried out 
simultaneously with other plant planting with the aim 
of helping soil enrichment and preventing surface 
erosion.
CITA’s waste management system is based on applicable 
environmental regulations and relevant global standards 
of waste management practice.
CITA handles waste strictly 
as our responsibility in waste generation (Duty of Care).
The sites make management efforts to minimize 
the volume of waste generation by reusing, separating 
recyclables, and composting.
Hazardous Waste Management
All hazardous waste is identified at all work locations 
based on their physical and type with environmental 
regulations.
Bauxite residue contains 
water, soil, and red clay, which is called Red Mud with 
the same composition as OB with fewer minerals, 
so it is not a hazardous toxic waste.
●
●
The mud is flowed into settling pond until full 
capacity and closed then.
The pond that had been 
closed was then revegetated.
●
●
The settling pond is built on Reinforced Soil 
Foundations (RSF).
To ensure the settling ponds 
working properly, the company carried out 
Environmental
54
PT.
Until 2021, CITA continues to add locations that can be 
optimized with solar panels, such as street lighting and 
office energy sources with a capacity of 19.1 Kwp.
The 
adaptation program that has been carried out by mining 
operations is to increase the frequency of watering to 
reduce air pollution and water conservation with closed 
circulation in sediment ponds.
Both Air Upas Site and Sandai Site are 
not located in water scarce areas based on the WRI Water 
Atlas which was accessed on January 15, 2022.
The 
residual washing water flows into settling ponds which are 
made circularly, allowing the water to be processed and 
the residue content reduced so that it can be reused for 
washing.
In addition, each site communicates environmental 
management performance as part of HSE management 
to be discussed in stages in each subsidiary and CITA for 
coordination and implementation of Company policies.
CITA is responsible for participating in managing social 
impacts to minimize negative impacts and promote 
community development.
Penerapan yang mengedepankan 
tujuan dan manfaat program serta 
mempertimbangkan peningkatan 
kemampuan penerima manfaat dan 
institusi sosial untuk melaksanakan 
program dan menjamin keterlibatan 
pemangku kepentingan
Implementation that prioritizes 
the objectives and benefits of the 
program and considers increasing 
the capacity of beneficiaries and 
social institutions to implement the 
program and ensures stakeholder 
involvement.
Program priorities are made based on the 
geographical location of the beneficiaries from the activity 
location.
These activities include MSME Training, Clean and healthy 
lifestyle, PMT, Free Health, Teacher Training, and other 
relevant activity.
In line with this focus, CITA has increased 
the number of assisted villages from 13 villages in 2020 to 
15 villages in 2021.
Health Program
Health is an important part of community development, 
especially during this pandemic.
Monthly regular incentive assistance for honorary and 
contract teachers to increase teaching motivation
b.
The realization of the education program are supported 
by the proportionate allocation of CDP funds of the total 
funds provided.
The creation of Micro small medium enterprises (MSMEs) 
that elevate local potentials
b.
The program aims to provide the community with 
livelihood alternative, increase income, and support food 
independence, especially during the pandemic.
The absorption of CDP funds in economic programs 
increased in 2021 compared to the previous year.
In 
2021, the allocation of CDP funds for economic programs 
was recorded at 11% of the value provided, which was IDR 
342,238,000 for Sandai site and IDR 441,277,000 for Air Upas 
site.
In 2021, CITA realized IDR 
1,472,620,000 at Sandai site and IDR 711,927,850 at Air 
Upas site for infrastructure programs.
Socio-cultural Program
Culture is the identity of a nation formed from diversity, 
social interaction, and art, which is an extraordinary 
potential in maintaining the integrity of the nation and 
respecting differences.
e.	
The growth of positive activities by the younger 
generation
This program has the highest number of beneficiaries 
in CITA’s CDP compared to other programs.
Environmental Conservation Program
As a company based on the utilization of natural 
resources, the Company is committed to maintaining and 
preserving a sustainable environment.
Community involvement in the process of planning, 
realizing, and monitoring the evaluation of 
environmental programs
b.
Restoration of environmental functions with pollution 
prevention program
c.	 Breakthroughs in environmental conservation such as 
the integrated management of community household 
waste that can be of economic value.
In 2021, CITA in its environmental conservation program 
has allocated special funds through the CDP funds, 
with the amount of IDR 34,575,000 for Sandai site and 
IDR 41,530,000 for Air Upas site.
CITA monitors program implementation, program 
results, and socio-economic parameters in accordance 
with the scope of the CDP programs.
Through these interactions, 
CITA obtains input from the community to improve or 
enhance future the CDP programs.
CITA receives community grievance to implement a fair 
and transparent program.
Dampak kegiatan PPM pada 
pencapaian TPB ditahun 2021 digambarkan sebagai 
berikut:
From the beginning of the process, CITA involved 
stakeholders who have land rights in discussions of 
long-term mining plans, from land acquisition process 
to post-mining.
Contribution to Sustainable Development 
Goals
The CDP activities carried out by CITA contribute to 
the achievement of the Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs) which are provided in the form of grants, 
donations, and in-kind support for the activities.
The 
Company has established an HSE policy that applies to 
all operational activities and is implemented by all the 
Company’s personnel, from top management to field 
workers and contractors.
Site Operasi Air Upas dan Sandai secara konsisten 
menerapkan prosedur dan standar K3 untuk kegiatan 
CITA’S POLICY IN THE FIELD OF HEALTH, SAFETY, 
AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
CITA is committed to provide a safe working 
environment for employees and contractors or other 
parties associated with the Company’s activities.
CITA implements the SMKP 
on an ongoing basis and evaluate the effectiveness of 
the SMKP by conducting regular internal audits by a 
team of internal auditors who have been certified by the 
Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources.
Air Upas and Sandai Operation Sites consistently apply 
OHS procedures and standards for mining activities.
The 
4  | Pengembangan Masyarakat
83
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
penambangan.
OHS leadership in each location is held by the Head of 
Mining Engineering and management in the work area as 
the highest person in charge of the OHS implementation, 
supported by the HSE Department who is responsible for 
carrying out daily OHS functions
An Occupational Health and Safety Committee is formed 
in each work area led by the Head of Mining Engineering 
and a management team assisted by the Head of the HSE 
Department and consists of operational components and 
contractor representatives.
OHS Committee meetings 
are held regularly at each mine to convey the Company’s 
policies and an OHS consultation interaction room that 
discusses input from the field to improve OHS practices.
At the corporate level, CITA conducts OHS meetings with 
subsidiaries as part of the monthly discussion of operational 
aspects and evaluation of the performance of subsidiaries.
The focus of OHS 
activities in 2021 include:
●
●
COVID-19 prevention and control and vaccination 
programs for employees and their families
●
●
Fatal accident prevention program
●
●
Fatigue Management Program
●
●
Mining business routine supervision program, and
●
●
Mining Safety Management System implementation 
program.
OHS Risks
OHS risk management begins with identifying potential 
incidents in operating activities and conducting impact 
assessments, both historical and potential.
Risk analysis 
includes risk grouping and developing strategies to 
reduce the risk of accidents or property damage.
Sebagai bagian dari mitigasi risiko, Perusahaan 
mengharuskan semua kecelakaan sekecil apapun dilaporkan, 
Each mining activity is carry out an OHS risk analysis which 
is reviewed annually and conduct a safety analysis for each 
type of work that has a high-risk potential, both of which 
serve as a reference for management to develop programs, 
inspections, observations, and improve OHS performance.
occur to the Company’s employees or contractor workers 
in all operational activities in accordance with applicable 
regulations.
The Company was involved 
and registered the Company’s employees in the 
Gotong Royong vaccination program initiated by the 
Government for the private sector.
Jenis-jenis pekerjaan yang dilakukan 
kontraktor adalah:
●
●Pengupasan tanah
●
●Penambangan mineral
●
●Pengangkutan
●
●Pemuatan
●
●Konsultasi survei dan konsultasi penambangan
●
●Pelaksana konstruksi fasilitas pertambangan
Health programs and services implemented by the 
Company are in accordance with applicable safety 
and employment requirements, which include medical 
checkups, participation in employment BPJS (labor 
safety insurance), provision of health services in the 
workplace and implementation of health promotion and 
improvement programs in the workplace and disease 
prevention.
All CITA operations and contractors 
enforce this rule, including strict sanctions by revocation 
of the Mining Entry Permit for violation of this rule.
The types of work carried out by 
the contractors are:
●
●Soil stripping
●
●Mineral Mining
●
●Transportation
●
●Loading
●
●Survey consulting and mining consulting
●
●Mining facility construction contractor
Community Development
88
PT.
Contractor’s OHS control is 
carried out before starting work through OHS requirements 
in the contract or memorandum of understanding with the 
contractors.
Contractors who work in the work area are required 
to obtain a letter of approval from the Head of Mining 
Engineering, all contractors (11 companies) who are 
partners of the Company have met this requirement.
The OHS requirements in the workplace are entirely 
the responsibility of both parties to comply with 
relevant OHS standards.
Comply with all regulations that have been set 
by CITA based on mining engineering regulations 
as outlined in the Ministry of Energy and Mineral 
Resources Regulation 1827K/30/MEM/2018, 
including:
a.	 Feasibility Test Mechanism for Units and Work 
Facilities
b.
OHS management by contractors is regulated in 
the Contractor Management System – Occupational 
Health Safety and Environment (CMS-OHSE) which is 
communicated and implemented by the contractor.
Management and Implementation System
2.
The audit results 
serve as a reference to improve the OHS system and are 
reported to top management for evaluation and follow-up.
In February 2021, CITA has completed the internal audit of 
the Mining Safety Management System in both Air Upas and 
Sandai work areas.
Based on the Mining Safety Management 
System criteria, the 2021 audit results reached a score of 
46.18% which is an increase from the 38.74% score in the 
previous year.
CITA is committed to continuously improving 
the implementation of Mining Safety Management System 
in a sustainable manner.
The report consist  information including the number of 
incidents, employee health management, information 
on the number of employees and working hours.
Emergency Response Preparedness
To deal with the possibility of accidents and dangerous 
conditions, CITA has prepared a series of activities to 
ensure the readiness of personnel and equipment, in 
order to minimize the impact caused by emergency 
conditions.
Each 
position has its own duties and responsibilities, including:
Crisis Management Team (CMT).
This is the highest 
structure in the emergency response system at the 
operational location.
Incidents in this mine 
happened to a hauling contractor on a mine road due to 
a dangerous act.
To prevent recurrence, CITA is improving 
the competency (knowledge, skills, and behavior) of 
contractors in carrying out mining operations and 
improving the quality and standards of road infrastructure 
to minimize similar incidents in the future.
Equality is provided starting from the workforce 
recruitment process, development, assessment, to 
remuneration in accordance with labor regulations and 
company regulations.
As a manifestation of the benefits of CITA’s presence in 
the community, the Company opens opportunities for 
individuals who meet the requirements in the vicinity of the 
mining site to join the Company.
The Company prioritizes 
local workers if they meet the competencies required for 
the position.
As of December 31, 2021, the percentage of women at 
CITA reached 32.1% at the head office, 10.1% in Air Upas 
and 7.7% in Sandai.
CITA is committed to increasing gender 
inclusion and equality in the future.
●
●
Provide a comfortable and safe workplace.
●
●
Eliminate the recruitment of forced child labor 
under any circumstances through the assessment of 
recruitment policies implementation at both CITA and 
contractors.
●
●
Secure the location and physical assets of the 
Company in ways that comply with regulations and 
do not violate human rights.
●
●
Implement integrated security procedures that 
combine internal and external safeguards to 
ensure the safety of construction activities and safe 
operations.
●
●
After the investigation is completed, both the 
grievance raiser and the alleged harasser will be 
notified of the findings and the resolution.
●
●
If charges of bullying, discrimination, violence, 
118
PT.
or sexual harassment are confirmed, CITA will act 
equitably in imposing appropriate consequences, 
with the perpetrator receiving sanctions up to and 
including termination.
●
●
Behavior determined by Company legal counsel to 
constitute criminality will be reported in full detail to 
appropriate authorities.
●
●
Seniority and/or standing in CITA have no bearing on 
the judgment on the appropriate sanction in these 
situations.
●
●
CITA maintains written records of all grievances and 
full details on how they are investigated and resolved.
The employee turnover rate of 10.6% was decreased 
compared to 14.0% in the previous year and 15.2% in 
2019.
This was supported by the implementation of 
training programs that improve the organization’s ability 
to manage operations and develop its business activities.
Management opens grievances channels for all 
employees to create a conducive and pleasant work 
environment for employees.
This 
is because the latest information related to grievances is 
informed to the grievance raiser.
