OUR APPROACH
The nature of our business impacts the environment and communities surrounding our operations.
We mitigate impacts 
to the extent practicable through state-of-the-art control and remediation measures.
We develop infrastructure, support 
health, safety and education efforts, and provide local employment and business development opportunities.
The 
products we produce are critical for sustainability and higher standards of living.
To supply essential natural resources 
to current and future generations, we are guided by our stated business objectives, principles and policies, and we 
continuously strive to improve our sustainable development programs.
SOCIAL
Operate safely, and uphold and respect human rights.
This enhances our ability to 
obtain permits to operate and ensures we have a 
dedicated workforce.
At Freeport-McMoRan we have a very bright future.
As a leading mining company with global operations, we recognize and acknowledge 
the challenges we face.
Our mines will continue to be developed through sincere 
relationships built on trust and hard work for the benefit of all concerned.
Freeport-McMoRan 
Oil & Gas LLC 
This WTSD report primarily focuses 
on our mining and metals operations 
which are implementing programs 
developed in alignment with the 
ICMM Sustainable Development 
Framework.
While our oil and 
gas operations are excluded from 
the boundary of this framework, 
FM O&G operates in accordance with 
all Freeport-McMoRan policies and 
governance structures.
Operating 
in a highly-regulated industry 
in the U.S., FM O&G maintains 
audited safety and environmental 
management systems and emergency 
response procedures.
Supporting this framework are internal governance and 
management systems that provide the details on how we operate.
In addition, as reflected in our 
Principles of Business Conduct, the board seeks to establish a “tone 
at the top” communicating the board’s strong commitment to 
ethical behavior.
Each committee 
regularly reports on these matters to the full board.
The Corporate 
Responsibility Committee of our board is responsible for overseeing 
our policies and programs related to management of risks associated 
with the Company’s safety and health policies and programs, 
environmental policy and implementation programs, human rights 
policy and practices, community health programs and related 
public health and medical matters, community policy and practices, 
governmental and stakeholder relations and social investment and 
sustainable development programs, charitable contributions, and 
political activity and spending practices.
The committee examines key 
performance data and receives briefings concerning challenges and 
emerging issues in these areas.
The board believes that full and open communication between senior 
management and the board is essential to effective risk oversight.
The board oversees 
the strategic direction of our Company, and in doing so considers 
the potential rewards and risks of our business opportunities and 
challenges, and monitors the development and management of risks 
that impact our strategic goals.
Our executive compensation program is designed and managed by 
the independent Compensation Committee of our board.
During 
2014, the committee developed a scorecard to measure environmental 
and social responsibility performance for 2015.
For the scorecard 
the committee considered the environmental performance with 
respect to environmental penalties, reportable spills and releases, 
and notices of violation.
Safety performance, measured by total 
recordable incident rate, continues to be evaluated as part of our 
executive compensation program.
The team is sponsored by our Executive 
Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer, and is led by 
our Vice President of Environmental Services and Sustainable 
Development.
The team includes business unit presidents and senior 
personnel from the safety, supply chain, human resources, sales, 
compliance, and land and water functions.
We 
consider early and effective engagement with stakeholders critical for 
creating mutually beneficial opportunities and reducing sustainability 
risks to our plans.
In 2014, 
our corporate team engaged with over 50 investor organizations, 
sustainability analyst firms, banking institutions and NGOs on topics 
including fatality prevention, environmental management, revenue 
transparency, human rights, resettlement programs, water resources 
and community development.
Our operational-level teams regularly engage locally with community 
stakeholders, development institutions and NGOs.
Mining 
operations maintain 5-year community engagement and development 
plans that identify affected or interested parties and programs 
for ongoing engagement and consultation.
The health and safety 
management systems and environmental management systems of our 
operations obtain independent certification to Occupational Health 
and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001 and International 
Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001, respectively.
These systems include corrective and preventive action tracking 
for internal and external audit findings.
The most recent triennial 
external environmental audit at PTFI was completed in 2014 and the 
summary results are available on our website.
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT RISK REGISTER
The Freeport-McMoRan Sustainable Development framework is 
designed for alignment with the ICMM Sustainable Development 
Framework and implemented based on site-specific factors and 
influences.
Essential to 
our framework is the Sustainable Development Risk Register process, 
which prioritizes safety, environmental, social, economic and value 
chain challenges and opportunities based on our views of potential 
impacts to our business and the importance of these topics to 
stakeholders.
As part of this process, local management teams utilize 
a matrix with consequence categories including potential safety, 
community, environmental and production impacts.
Our Sustainable 
Development Department works with operational management 
teams to review processes to ensure prioritization of key business risks 
and implementation of associated action and monitoring plans.
On an 
annual basis, a corporate, cross-functional team of senior personnel 
reviews the Sustainable Development Risk Registers of our major 
operations.
Resulting sustainability focus areas identified through this 
Sustainable Development Risk Register process are reviewed 
annually by our Sustainable Development Leadership Team and 
communicated to the Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Corporate 
Responsibility Committee of the board.
We 
manage our operations in a manner to identify impacts and, where practicable, implement actions that conserve and enhance biodiversity, 
including reclamation activities.
(p. 18)
ENERGY MANAGEMENT
Carbon-based energy is a significant input in our operations, and our revenues include significant sales of oil, NGLs and gas, and other carbon-
based energy products.
We have modeled multiple carbon tax scenarios to understand possible impacts, or the range of possible increases to our operating costs.
The Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights serve as guidelines for our security and 
human rights programs, interactions with host government police and military personnel, and with private security contractors.
We continue to engage openly with our employees and union leadership to successfully negotiate labor agreements recognizing that prolonged 
strikes or other work stoppages at our operations can adversely affect our business and local and regional stakeholders.
(p. 14) 
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP
Our product stewardship team engages both downstream customers and international governmental agencies on sustainability topics.
(p. 8)
SAFETY AND HEALTH
The safety of our workforce at all of our operations is our highest priority.
(p. 15)
TAILINGS AND WASTE ROCK MANAGEMENT	
Managing the volume of waste rock, leach material and tailings produced in our mining operations presents significant environmental, safety 
and engineering challenges and risks.
Our tailings 
impoundments in arid areas maintain programs to suppress fugitive dust emissions.
(p. 30)
WATER SUPPLY AND MANAGEMENT
Most of our operations in North America and South America are in arid areas and access to quality water supplies is significant to multiple 
stakeholders, including local communities.
Annually 
Recurring
Workforce
Increase the percentage of women in our workforce, 
including representation in managerial positions, 
to 15%
X
Women comprise 10% of our employee population and hold 11% 
of all managerial positions, which is relatively unchanged from 
recent years.
Annually 
Recurring
Meet company-wide total recordable incident rate 
(TRIR)a of 0.61
 √
Our TRIRa was 0.56 for 2014, a company record.
Annually 
Recurring
Human Rights
Incur zero grossb human rights violations at our 
operations caused by employees and contractors
 √
We did not incur any gross human rights violations at our 
operations caused by employees or contractors.
2014
Work with regional and local governments, 
community stakeholders, private sector developer(s) 
and businesses, to commence construction of 
town infrastructure and residential housing in 
the Integrated Development Zone in our TFM 
concession to support sustainable urban growth
On 
Schedule
A Strategic Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (SESA) 
was conducted in 2014 on the Integrated Development Zone (IDZ) 
concept.
The sustainability risk management strategies derived 
from the SESA are being incorporated into the IDZ project design.
We 
did have 14 spills or releases that were reportable to national 
agencies based on applicable regulations.
Annually 
Recurring
Incur zero penalties more than $100,000
√
Our operations did not incur any penalties exceeding $100,000.
PERFORMANCE TARGETS
12 
A
s a natural resource company with a leading global portfolio 
of assets, we continue to advance significant expansion 
projects, and our exploration drilling programs continue to identify 
opportunities for future reserve and production growth.
The ability 
to achieve our business goals depends on successfully recruiting 
and retaining talented employees.
LOCAL HIRING AND SKILLS DEVELOPMENT
We make concerted efforts to hire locally, as this practice 
incorporates local cultures and knowledge into our business systems 
and helps fulfill our commitment to supporting local economic 
development both directly and indirectly.
At our TFM operation, located in the DRC, 98 percent 
of our employees are Congolese citizens.
Native American tribe, is intended to increase the employability
and skills of Apache students who are faced with high unemployment 
in their community.
The program is designed to train and certify 
students in heavy equipment operations and industrial maintenance.
Through the end of 2014, a total of 452 students have entered the 
program and 171 have graduated – 75 percent of whom have been 
hired or are in the process of being hired by the Company.
In preparation, Cerro Verde has begun hiring personnel, with a 
preference to hire qualified persons from the Arequipa region.
In 2014, Cerro Verde partnered with 
TECSUP to develop a training program for participants interested 
in concentrator maintenance and operations.
The program began in 
January 2014, and in December, the class of 173 students graduated,  
over 100 of whom have been hired by the Company.
Freeport-McMoRan’s Learning and Leadership Development 
program offers courses designed to improve the productivity and effectiveness of 
our workforce.
* 
The Increase in contractors over recent years is primarily attributable to 
construction of brownfield expansion projects in our copper business.
Approximately 48 percent 
of our employee population is covered by collective bargaining 
agreements, 28 percent of which is covered by agreements that 
will expire during 2015.
We work cooperatively with 26 unions 
worldwide.
Our policy is to ensure fair treatment and work conditions 
for all employees, including rights to freedom of association and 
collective bargaining.
DIVERSITY
We operate in regions of varying ethnic, religious and cultural 
backgrounds and are generally the largest employer in local 
communities.
We seek ways to recruit and foster career development for women in 
our Company, as women traditionally have been underrepresented 
in the mining sector.
Over 300 women 
hold management positions, or manager or higher positions in the 
Company.
Workforce members meet for a safety briefing prior to a shift on the Cerro Verde 
expansion project.
Africa	
Indonesia	
Europe/other	
South America	
North America	
Company-wide
	
98%	
77%	
66%	
64%	
0%	
48%
PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES UNDER COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS
By Operating Region
14 
S
afety is integral to all Freeport-McMoRan operations and is 
the responsibility of all employees and managed by a formal 
structure starting with our Safety and Health Policy.
Our philosophy 
of safe production is demonstrated by the integration of safety 
practices in all aspects of our operational activities.
Our Board 
of Directors requires comprehensive audits to assure the safety 
management system is effective, weaknesses are identified and 
resources are applied to achieve the Company’s policy objectives.
Our Health and Safety Management System consists of a framework 
for managing risks and compliance obligations.
Our Management 
System is certified in accordance with the internationally recognized 
OHSAS 18001 standard.
OHSAS certification audits are conducted 
at all metals and mining operations on a yearly basis.
We draw no distinction between contractors and our own employees 
with regard to health and safety performance and reporting.
The Freeport-McMoRan Contractor Safety Manual defines the 
minimal expectations and requirements for contractors working 
at our operations.
The company-wide TRIR in 2014 
is the lowest in the Company’s history.
We worked 202.5 million 
hours in 2014 compared to 175 million hours in the prior year, and 
we recorded a total of 567 reportable injuries in 2014 compared to 
649 in 2013.
We are working with industry experts and safety 
professionals to audit tasks and ensure that identified controls are 
being utilized and are effective.
The purpose was to set minimum policy requirements and identify 
potential gaps in existing guidelines or procedures.
Implementing this technology removes the 
worker from a potentially harmful location should an accident related 
to tire pressure occur.
A variance policy for GSRs will be issued to ensure the appropriate 
management reviews in those infrequent instances where it is 
not feasible to comply with a GSR control requirement or when 
2014 WORKPLACE FATALITIES
Including Contractors
Operation
Date
Event Description
PTFI 
Papua, Indonesia
January
A concrete mixer truck operator transporting a load of concrete from a surface batch plant to an 
underground construction project was killed when his truck overturned as it descended a steep section 
of the roadway.
Cerro Verde 
Expansion Project 
Arequipa, Peru
September
A subcontractor bus carrying contractor employees from the mine site to Arequipa ran off the road and 
rolled over.
The jumbo crew was working under supported ground at 
the time of the failure when the jumbo was buried, and the contractor miner was killed.
PTFI 
Papua, Indonesia
September
A haul truck ran over a light vehicle at an intersection in the Grasberg surface mine.
SAFETY AND HEALTH
Members of the Morenci Slope Design and Stability group stand in front of a ground 
probe slope stability radar unit that continuously scans pit slopes.
We are identifying proactive metrics or leading indicators of fatality 
prevention.
Such leading indicators to be tracked will 
include the number of critical control audits conducted for high risk 
tasks, percentage compliance with critical controls for high risk tasks 
audited, the number of critical control upgrades and the percentage 
reduction of high risks tasks performed.
The risk categories reviewed included transportation risks (bus, 
tram, and Grasberg Block Cave shaft); geotechnical risks; fire risks 
(underground and in occupied surface buildings); and Deep Ore Zone 
underground mine haul truck risks.
In all, 19 major accident hazards 
were examined and developed into 23 accident scenarios.
The results 
of the review are being utilized to enhance ongoing critical control 
identification and implementation at PTFI.
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH 
Freeport-McMoRan operations maintain comprehensive occupational 
health programs to assess the risk of exposure to occupational health 
hazards and implement adequate controls for the workforce.
Our 
Field Guide for Occupational Health and Industrial Hygiene defines 
occupational exposure limits, standards and practices that apply 
globally.
During 2014, our medical protocols were reviewed, expanded 
and standardized to assist with recognition and management of risks 
relevant to conditions such as heat stress; to evaluate fitness for duty; 
and to track specific indicators for specific exposures such as silica and 
lead.
There were 46 occupational illness cases reported at our operations in 
2014.
These cases reflect the number of workforce members involved, 
not the number of exposure events which was significantly lower.
These measures are now being 
implemented at all operations with similar 
leaching processes.
Other cases included hearing 
impairment, dermatitis and illness as a result 
of exposure to agents including acid mist.
The audit directly links these 
threats to our associated controls, recovery and mitigation measures.
The safety of the 
men and women in 
our over-80,000-
member workforce 
continues to be our 
highest priority and 
a critical focus of our 
management team.
The Freeport-McMoRan Principles of Business 
Conduct are a commitment to integrity and define the expected 
behavior of all employees and our Board of Directors.
We conduct 
comprehensive training on our Principles of Business Conduct, 
including annual certification of management-level employees 
(99 percent trained in 2014).
Of the approximate 12,400 employees 
selected in 2014, 95 percent completed the training.
We 
do not tolerate the offering or payment of bribes, kickbacks or other 
similar payments to any person or organization or government official 
to secure advantages for our business.
Likewise, we do not accept any 
of these payments.
Our Anti-Corruption Policy and Guidelines require 
compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 
(FCPA) and other relevant anti-corruption laws, including local laws.
This approach is expected to increase the number of 
employees selected for the training and provide a more consistent and 
automated selection process.
During 2014, we held in-person classroom training at Atlantic 
Copper, PTFI, Cerro Verde, TFM, FM O&G and for Exploration 
teams in Europe which consisted of key departments such as 
Government Relations, Operations and Logistics.
In addition, classes were held for 105 contractors at 
PTFI.
Principles of Business Conduct, FCPA and Fair Competition 
training was provided to the Climax Molybdenum and Sales 
Management teams.
FCeX is a survey-based 
software platform designed to assess risk in the areas of anti-
corruption, international trade and human rights.
FCeX has significantly enhanced the Company’s 
ability to identify, assess and mitigate compliance risks.
INFORMATION AND REPORTING
Freeport-McMoRan maintains a Compliance Line to provide 
guidance and assistance to workforce members with any questions or 
concerns related to our Principles of Business Conduct.
Employees from PTFI’s Environmental, Corporate Communications, and Security & Risk 
Management departments receive annual training on corporate ethics and the FCPA 
from PTFI Compliance Officer, Ingrid Pakpahan.
This training is an integral part of the 
Company’s global compliance program.
18 
TRANSPARENCY OF GOVERNMENT PAYMENTS
In 2008, Freeport-McMoRan endorsed and committed to support 
the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), which 
is a commitment by governments to disclose revenues, and by oil, 
gas and mining companies to disclose natural resource payments to 
governments in order to advance transparency and accountability.
A Company executive serves on the EITI International Board of 
Directors and other employees directly support in-country 
EITI processes.
DRC is an EITI compliant country and TFM engages in the 
process as a member of the country’s EITI multi-stakeholder group.
The U.S. was 
accepted as a candidate country by the EITI International Board 
of Directors in March 2014 and Company representatives are 
active members of the U.S. EITI multi-stakeholder group.
For the year ended	
U.S.	
Chile	
Peru	
Indonesia	
DRC	
Other	
Total
December 31, 2014 ($ millions)                   	
	
	
	
	
	
Countriesb

Corporate Income Taxes, Net of Refunds	
$   384  	
$ 168  	
$ 282  	
$ 165  	
$   11  	
$  13  	
$ 1,023  
Withholding Taxes on Foreign Dividends 	
-	
134	
-	
1	
-	
-	
135
Employee Payroll Taxes 	
406	
24	
10	
86	
44	
25	
595
Dividends 	
-	
-	
-	
-	
-	
-	
-	

Royalties and Net Severance Taxes 	
369	
39	
23	
118	
32	
-	
581
Property Taxes 	
139	
1	
-	
9	
-	
2	
151
Other Taxes and Fees 	
434	
28	
150	
159	
95	
4	
870
Total 	
$1,732  	
$394  	
$465  	
$538  	
$182  	
$44  	
$3,355  
a.

This schedule reflects a voluntary effort by Freeport-McMoRan to capture its cash payments to governments (net of refunds), including payments 
by FM O&G.
We have established site-specific human rights policies 
and systems consistent with the corporate policy, in-country laws and 
regulations, and the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human 
Rights (Voluntary Principles).
We received input on the assessment’s 
methodology and discussed findings.
through operations’ grievance mechanisms or 
official channels) for reasons ranging from lack of access to fear 
of retribution.
• 
The greatest actual and perceived impacts are linked to community 
and employee-related issues.
Employees
Working conditions
Safe and healthy                
working conditions
Contractors and workers 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in the supply chain
Discrimination
Children’s rights, incl.
20 
As part of the corporate-level HRIA, we included an exercise to 
identify how the Company promotes and advances human rights.
Based on lessons learned from this site-level process, the findings will 
further shape the Company’s human rights strategy and approach as 
we consider possible gaps in our high-level corporate assessment and 
the possible implementation of assessments at other operations.
The HRIA process, including the related stakeholder engagement, 
helped the Company define updates to its Human Rights Policy.
SECURITY
The Voluntary Principles on 
Security and Human Rights serve 
as guidelines for our security and 
human rights programs, interactions with host government police and 
military personnel, and with private security contractors.
PTFI employs approximately 730 unarmed personnel and 260 
unarmed private security and transportation and logistics contractors 
that perform functions such as protecting facilities, monitoring 
shipments of supplies and products, assisting in traffic control and 
aiding in emergency response operations.
This designation results in the 
police, and to a lesser extent, the military, playing a significant role in 
protecting the area of our operations.
The Government of Indonesia 
is responsible for employing police and military personnel and 
directing their operations.
The MoU 
covers a 3-year term and details the working relationship between 
PTFI and the police, including areas of support, coordination and 
commitment to PTFI policies and procedures, including business 
ethics and human rights.
The Voluntary Principles are included in 
the MoU.
PTFI’s share of support costs for the government-provided 
security was $27 million for 2014 and $25 million and $22 million 
in 2013 and 2012, respectively.
This supplemental support consists of 
infrastructure and other costs, such as food, housing, fuel, travel, vehicle 
repairs, allowances to cover incidental and administrative costs, and 
community assistance programs conducted by the military and police.
TFM employs approximately 340 unarmed security 
employees and 725 unarmed private security contractors.
In addition 
to these security personnel, the national government has assigned 
approximately 110 Mines Police to the TFM concession area.
The 
MoU details the working relationship between TFM and the Mines 
Police, including areas of support, coordination and commitment to 
TFM policies and procedures, including business ethics and human 
rights.
The Voluntary Principles are incorporated by reference and 
included as an attachment to the MoU.
Provision of support to host country security personnel in the 
DRC and Indonesia is consistent with our obligations under our 
agreements with the respective governments, our philosophy of 
responsible corporate citizenship and the Voluntary Principles.
We facilitate host government security training on the Voluntary 
Principles and periodically review our support practices to ensure 
they are appropriate, lawful and properly controlled.
REPORTING AND ENGAGEMENT MECHANISMS
In 2014, 40 human rights-related allegations were reported to the 
PTFI Human Rights Compliance Officer compared to 34 in the 
prior year.
In 2014, 34 human rights allegations were reported to and recorded 
by the TFM Human Rights Compliance Officer.
Superintendent of Human Rights Training at PTFI Luther Kogoya leads employees 
through a training session.
The training emphasizes that all employees and contractors 
have a responsibility to report any human rights concerns or potential violations.
We 
engage openly and transparently with local stakeholders to facilitate 
our ability to operate and grow our business.
Our Community Policy 
calls for collaboration with communities to minimize and mitigate 
adverse impacts and cultivate opportunities to maximize benefits.
An Independent Mediation Committee 
(IMC) is maintained at TFM independently and impartially resolve 
grievances.
Mediation occurs only if the complainant is not satisfied 
with TFM’s resolution to the initial grievance recorded through 
the grievance system and the complainant requests the grievance be 
presented to the IMC.
In 2014, the IMC received 76 cases, of which 
46 were resolved (related to community resettlement, property damage 
and employment) and the remaining 30 are in process.
In addition to direct community investment from operations 
and the corporate Freeport-McMoRan Foundation, we have 
established community trust funds or social funds in Chile, the 
DRC, Indonesia and the U.S., which are managed by community 
members who determine the allocation of funds to programs that 
focus on education, health and economic development.
During 2014, we continued our support of quality improvement in 
science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) education 
through teacher development and retention initiatives, programs 
to spark student interest, and efforts that helped to strengthen the 
STEM education systems, all with the goal of improving student 
achievement and preparing them for college and careers.
In November 2014, approximately 300 residents from the Kamoro 
village of Nawaripi blocked PTFI workers from carrying out 
extension work on the West Levee.
PTFI 
Community Liaison Officers and the PTFI Tailings and River 
Management Project Department met with the Nawaripi residents 
to discuss their grievances and assess the impacts.
PTFI is continuing 
discussions with the community for an amicable long-term solution.
Coupled with the Freeport-McMoRan Chile Foundation for social 
investment, we anticipate significantly increased strategic stakeholder 
engagement and community development activities in Chile in 2015.
In the U.S., we continued engagement with Native American tribes in 
2014.
Education has been identified as a priority issue for our partner 
tribes, and our Native American Scholarship program awarded 36 
college scholarships to members of the Hualapai, San Carlos Apache, 
In response to grievances from Kamoro communities related to sedimentation in 
the Ajkwa estuary, PTFI has provided a 50 passenger boat to provide regular water 
transportation services for coastal villages to healthcare, education and economic 
trade in the Timika area.
In 2014, El Abra partnered with a renewable energy developer to install 1,500 
photovoltaic panels (left) and a wind turbine in the indigenous community of Ollagüe, 
Chile.
Prior to the project the community relied solely on electricity from diesel 
generators.
24 
Tohono O’odham and White Mountain Apache tribes during the 
year.
TFM maintains a Land 
Access, Compensation, and Resettlement Policy Framework (available 
on our website) that sets out the principles, procedures, entitlements, 
eligibility criteria and organizational arrangements governing TFM’s 
compensation for involuntary resettlement impacts.
For each phase of 
resettlement, TFM conducts a comprehensive socio-economic 
baseline and census, and then prepares a Resettlement Action Plan 
(RAP).
The Mitumba-Fungurume Hills RAP 
impacts approximately 1,240 households that will be physically or 
economically displaced, of which 324 are entitled to resettlement 
housing.
An 
additional 20 households who opted for cash compensation were 
resettled in privately acquired residences in Fungurume, Lubumbashi 
and Likasi.
The physical resettlement process is scheduled for 
completion by the end of 2015.
The TFM resettlement program 
undergoes an annual external review as part of the program’s 
monitoring and evaluation.
PUBLIC HEALTH
We operate in some parts of the world that lack clean water and 
sanitation, and have populations with low levels of health education, 
awareness and access to adequate health services.
In coordination with local 
governments and NGOs, we dedicate significant resources to helping 
communities and governments reduce public health risks.
Improving access to clean water is critical to improving local 
health and living standards.
During the 2013-14 rainy season, a cholera outbreak occurred in the 
TFM concession resulting in 203 cases of cholera and 10 deaths.
In 
response to the outbreak, TFM supported the local government to 
establish an isolated cholera treatment location, provided cholera 
diagnostic and treatment kits and supported the transport of medical 
supplies provided by the Provincial Ministry of Health to the 
impacted area.
No cholera cases have been reported in the TFM concession for the 
2014-15 rainy season, and programs are underway for increasing 
access to potable water in sprawling urban areas that pose high risk.
As part of the USAID Emerging Pandemics Threats Program, 
tools were developed to address infectious disease risk management 
through collaborative dialogue and formulation of health strategies 
to mitigate these threats in collaboration governments and extractive 
industries.
The HIV/AIDS epidemic in Papua is predominately characterized by 
heterosexual transmission, especially impacting the indigenous Papuan 
population.
PTFI implements a number of HIV/AIDS prevention, 
outreach, and treatment programs for employees and community 
members.
Due to PTFI’s efforts to increase VCT uptake, PTFI is 
diagnosing HIV cases at an early stage and before complications 
arise.
Patients receive care at the interim referral hospital, built as a joint partnership 
between TFM and the Fungurume Health Zone.
The facility serves a population of 
approximately 130,000.
These risks pose a challenge for the mining industry 
globally, and companies are identifying means to manage the 
associated security risks and create economic alternatives for illegal 
miners, or in some cases, where health, safety and environmental 
conditions can be regulated, develop means for formalizing artisanal 
mining.
We recognize that no single solution will entirely address 
the issue as long as there is unemployment, poverty and buyers for 
illegal products.
Community Liaison Officers (CLOs) are routinely in the 
field to socialize the health and safety risks of artisanal gold panning.
PTFI is working with the local government and relevant institutions 
to find alternative livelihoods.
Working conditions in artisanal mining areas are treacherous, and the 
risk of landslides, collapse and the burial of miners are particularly 
high during the rainy season.
High levels 
of influx and associated illegal mining create tensions and social 
conflicts in the community, such as increased crime.
In partnership with SFCG, TFM hopes to create a forum 
for constructive dialogue with community members on the conflict 
issues in the area.
TFM continues to engage with the DRC authorities 
to operate control measures at the entry and exit points of the 
concession to interdict shipments of illegal ore, and to implement 
mobile security monitoring.
TFM CLOs conduct awareness 
campaigns to educate the community on the risks associated with 
illegal artisanal mining activity.
TFM’s long-term strategy continues 
to be support for economic development and job creation in the 
region to provide communities with alternative opportunities for 
income generation.
All of our mining and mineral processing operations maintain 
Environmental Management Systems (EMS) certified to ISO 14001, 
which are independently audited on an annual basis.
During 2014, 
we completed internal environmental audits at 14 operations, and our 
facilities are routinely inspected by regulatory agencies.
All operations have 
corrective action programs associated with the overarching EMS.
The increase 
in NOVs from 2012 to 2014 are partly attributable to notices 
received at Cerro Verde relating to a range of administrative-related 
findings that are not related to potential releases or threats to the 
environment.
Where our operations have been assessed for penalties, 
they typically are individually below $100,000.
For 
the year 2014, energy represented approximately 20 percent of our 
consolidated copper production costs.
In 2014, our worldwide total greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, 
measured as carbon dioxide equivalent emissions, were relatively 
unchanged from 2013 at approximately 9.5 million metric tons 
divided between direct (55 percent) and indirect (45 percent) 
emissions.
The majority of our mining activity 
occurs in open pits.
As an open pit matures, haul road length 
increases and haul trucks are required to move ore additional 
distances to the processing facility.
While the amount of waste 
* Penalties are typically paid in periods subsequent to the year of the environmental event and/or enforcement action.
As part 
of the project, high efficiency ball mills and a hydraulic roll crusher were installed, 
allowing for the processing of higher volumes of ore with up to 25 percent more energy 
efficiency than other crushing circuits in the industry.
Indirect emissions are primarily those emitted by our electricity 
providers.
In 2014, approximately 64 percent of our purchased power 
was from low carbon sources, including natural gas or renewable 
energy.
Crushing, milling, pumping and electrowinning are the 
most significant power-consuming processes at our facilities.
We have been investing more than $10 million annually into energy-
related research and development through our technology center, 
technical services and operational improvement groups.
Our mining operations are currently not located in jurisdictions 
where there is a direct cost associated with our GHG emissions.
ENVIRONMENT
We have received independent verification of our GHG emissions inventory 
for years 2007-2014.
2014 TOTAL (SCOPE I and II) CARBON DIOXIDE 
EQUIVALENT EMISSIONS
By Region
	
50%	 
North America
	
28%	
Indonesia
	17%	
South America
	 3%	
Africa
	 2%	
Europe
a.
The majority of 
our recycled water originates from reclaimed water capture at tailings 
storage facilities and leach pads.
We explore mutual opportunities with 
stakeholders as we continue to make long-term investments in water 
supply projects to support our operating and growth plans.
These 
reservoirs collect water primarily from seasonal precipitation and 
support communities, agriculture and mining interests.
The wastewater treatment plant is 
expected to improve regional water quality, reduce waterborne 
illnesses and enhance the value of local agricultural products while 
providing supplemental water for an economically important project 
for the region.
This process requires a federal 
environmental review which is expected to be completed during 2016.
TAILINGS AND WASTE ROCK
The waste rock (including overburden) and tailings that we produce 
represent our largest volume of waste.
Managing the volume of 
waste rock and tailings produced in our mining operations presents 
significant environmental, safety and engineering challenges.
In 
2014, we produced approximately 380 million and 180 million 
metric tons of waste rock and tailings, respectively.
The primary risks 
associated with managing waste rock stockpiles and tailings relate to 
structural stability, geochemistry, water quality and dust generation.
Management of this waste is regulated in the jurisdictions where 
we operate, and our programs are designed to be in compliance 
with applicable national, state and local laws, permits and approved 
Environmental Impact Studies.
The treated water is discharged into Ten Mile Creek, which supports local 
fisheries and recreation areas in Summit County, Colorado.
In connection 
with completion of the mill expansion at our Morenci, Arizona 
operation in 2014, we increased the operation’s TSF capacity by 
approximately 568 million metric tons.
At the operational level, TSF stability is managed by qualified 
internal engineers at our operations and reviewed by qualified 
external Engineer(s) of Record (EORs).
We follow established 
operations, maintenance and communication protocols.
In this 
process, we regularly inspect and monitor phreatic level trends, 
deposition plans, water management controls, seepage management, 
decant systems and other stability components.
In addition, we 
periodically review as-built insitu conditions through field and 
laboratory geotechnical testing programs.
In 2014, our 
TST conducted annual field inspections at 17 active and 20 inactive 
TSFs.
Levees have been constructed to laterally contain the 
footprint of the tailings and to limit their impact in the lowlands.
At TSFs located in arid regions, our tailings management program 
includes measures to reduce fugitive dust emissions from the surface 
of tailings impoundments, and increase reclaimed water capture to 
reduce freshwater consumption.
Our efforts to limit dust generation 
include the application of magnesium chloride, polymers, watering 
and wind fencing.
Waste rock and overburden are managed in stockpiles for possible 
future mineral recovery, reclamation or other projects.
These 
stockpiles are regularly monitored and evaluated for structural 
stability in accordance with local seismic design criteria.
At PTFI, 
overburden stockpiles are subject to erosion caused by the large 
ENVIRONMENT
At the Maurujaya Reclamation and Biodiversity Research Center (left), located on a 
retired tailings deposition area in the lowlands, PTFI collaborates with government 
agencies and universities to research reclamation techniques.
The eroded stockpile material is eventually deposited in 
the tailings management area in the lowlands.
This additional 
material, while predicted in our environmental studies, influences 
both the amounts and timing of deposition of finer tailings material 
in the estuary.
BIODIVERSITY 
We are committed to identifying the impacts of our operations and, 
where practicable, implementing actions that conserve and enhance 
biodiversity.
All operating mines have developed biodiversity 
management plans and Land Management Plans (LMPs), with the 
assistance of our corporate Biodiversity Task Force.
Biodiversity 
management plans identify potential biodiversity projects through a 
process that includes landscape-scale habitat inventory, assessment 
of biodiversity risks (linked with the operation’s Environmental 
Management System), identification of biodiversity opportunities 
and prioritization of projects.
The plans generally consist of voluntary 
projects conducted in partnership with stakeholder groups, including 
government agencies, academic institutions and NGOs.
LMPs 
provide the mechanism through which biodiversity considerations 
are incorporated into the site-specific planning process to minimize 
adverse impacts to biodiversity where practicable.
As of December 2014, 13 Freeport-McMoRan sites were certified 
by the Wildlife Habitat Council’s (WHC) Wildlife at Work program, 
which recognizes activities that create, conserve and restore wildlife 
habitat on corporate lands.
PTFI received the prestigious Corporate Lands for 
Learning of the Year award for outstanding conservation education, 
stewardship and voluntary employee efforts.
Cerro Verde received the award for its efforts 
to monitor and protect the Peruvian long-snouted bat (Platalina 
genovensium), an IUCN listed species.
Results indicate 
that the population has increased from 1.12 million to 1.35 million 
individuals in the past year.
In 2014, Safford operations partnered with Wild at Heart, an 
Arizona-based nonprofit dedicated to wildlife conservation, to 
relocate 20 displaced Burrowing Owls into an artificial habitat 
created on Company property.
To further 
promote pollinator conservation efforts, Freeport-McMoRan, 
in conjunction with the WHC and other conservation partners, 
developed a series of professional development courses for personnel 
on topics related to protection of pollinators, the enhancement 
of pollinator habitat and the potential of incorporating STEM 
education on pollinators more fully into Company programs.
An Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) was 
prepared for Cerro Verde’s large-scale expansion, which identified 
project impacts to areas of modified and natural habitat that are host to 
an assortment of floral and faunal species (including guanaco, Peruvian 
long-snouted bat and a variety of cacti species).
32 
between Cerro Verde and a consortium of Equator Principles Financial 
Institutions.
The independent ESDD included a recommendation to 
clarify and enhance alignment of Cerro Verde’s existing Biodiversity 
Management Plan with IFC Performance Standard 6.
In response 
to this recommendation, Cerro Verde prepared a Biodiversity Action 
Plan, which further described specific mitigation measures and their 
contributions to species conservation for each of the Endangered, 
Critically Endangered, Endemic, and Restricted-Range species 
identified during the ESIA.
Peck’s Lake and 
the adjacent Tavasci Marsh form an Audubon Important Bird Area, 
and provide valuable wildlife habitat for a number of migrating, 
breeding and over-wintering bird species.
Independent lines of evidence continue to indicate the 
reversible nature of impacts at the end of mining (with the exception 
of topographical changes) as predicted during the AMDAL 
(Environmental and Social Impact Assessment) process.
The 
Katanga Copper Arc is geologically unique in that the significant 
copper-cobalt deposits occur at the ground surface in the form of 
hills.
These hills and associated rock outcrops, which are the target 
of mining activities, support unique copper-cobalt clearings which 
contrast sharply with surrounding Miombo woodland forest.
These 
clearings represent unique ecosystems that support numerous plant 
species that have evolved on highly mineralized soils, and the region 
has long been recognized by the scientific community as a hotspot for 
endemic metallophyte plants.
Consequently, 
the copper-cobalt ecosystems and associated plant clearings are 
considered the priority biodiversity issue for TFM.
TFM continues its 
efforts to construct artificial ecosystems for plants transplanted prior 
to any commercial mining disturbance.
We continue to closely monitor developing concepts, including 
no net loss, net positive impacts and ecosystem services.
As this 
field evolves, we will continue to enhance communications on our 
biodiversity systems and initiatives.
ENVIRONMENT
PTFI monitors bird species on Ajkwa and Waii Islands, which were formed by fine tailings 
material and sediment from natural erosion processes.
Artisanal mining impacts highly distinctive habitats where plant species of concern have 
evolved on highly mineralized soils.
Each year 
approximately 400 photos are submitted by employees, and the contest successfully engages our workforce on biodiversity 
appreciation and to promote habitats at our worldwide operations.
The 
calendar showcases efforts by member companies to enhance and conserve wildlife habitat on corporate lands.
Winning photos 
selected by the Company’s Biodiversity Task Force are presented below.
