4  |  2019 Sustainability Report
OUR APPROACH
Our company is a leading responsible copper producer­
 – Freeport: Foremost in 
Copper.
Our values direct the decisions we make as a company and as 
individual employees.
Defining and implementing responsible production at Freeport-McMoRan is  
an iterative process focused on continuous improvement.
The graphic below describes how we 
implement responsible production at Freeport-McMoRan.
OUR APPROACH
6  |  2019 Sustainability Report
Governance
At Freeport-McMoRan, sustainability is embedded in our values and business 
strategy.
Governance and oversight of sustainability at the company starts with the 
Board of Directors (the Board) and cascades through leadership to our sites.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The Freeport-McMoRan Board oversees and guides the company’s business  
strategy.
Each committee regularly 
reports to the full Board.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE
The Corporate Responsibility Committee (CRC), on behalf of the Board, is responsible 
for providing oversight to the company’s management team on environmental and 
social matters.
The CRC regularly reviews the effectiveness of management’s 
strategies, programs and policy implementation with respect to health and safety, 
BOARD OF DIrectors
Executive Leadership (Ceo/cfo)
Site general managers
Site-level sustainable development leaders
Sustainable development leadersHip team
Business Unit  
Presidents
Corporate Administrative 
Group VPs
Subject matter experts
Corporate Responsibility Committee 
Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee
Audit Committee              Compensation Committee
7
security, human rights, employees and communities (including diversity and inclusion 
initiatives), the environment – including climate-related risks and opportunities, water 
management, tailings stewardship, community investment programs, government and 
stakeholder relations, and political and charitable contributions.
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT LEADERSHIP TEAM
Our Chief Executive Officer (CEO) has ultimate responsibility for the company’s 
sustainability performance.
The SDLT regularly reports to executive leadership, including our CEO and 
Chief Financial Officer, and members of the SDLT report to the CRC on key ESG matters.
The SDLT is sponsored by our Senior Vice President and Chief Administrative  
Officer and is led by our Vice President of Environmental Services and Sustainable 
Development, with participation from other members of the SDLT including our  
Chief Operating Officer, business unit Presidents, and Vice Presidents or senior 
representatives from groups including safety, security, supply chain, human resources, 
sales, legal, compliance, sustainability and finance functions.
Executive officers are held accountable for the company’s sustainability  
performance through the company’s performance-based annual incentive program 
(AIP).
Sustainability metrics (ESG) collectively account for 25% of the AIP.
OUR APPROACH
8  |  2019 Sustainability Report
Principles of Business Conduct
At Freeport-McMoRan, we are guided by our Principles of 
Business Conduct (PBC).
Our PBC is the cornerstone of our 
commitment to ethical business practices.
Outlines procedures to meet the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other relevant anti-corruption 
laws, including laws in the countries where we operate.
Recognizes the vital role of stakeholder engagement and calls for collaboration with communities, including 
indigenous and vulnerable populations, to minimize and mitigate adverse impacts and pursue opportunities 
to maximize benefits.
Outlines our duty to minimize the impact of our operations on the environment and to protect and enhance 
the quality of the environment in areas where we operate, including commitments to achieve ISO 14001 
certification at all operating facilities, support biodiversity programs in operational areas, and remediate 
sites for which we are responsible.
The Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights are the guidelines for our security programs.
Outlines our commitment to producing and sourcing minerals and metals responsibly, including  
respecting human rights and preventing bribery, fraud and corruption, and implementing the Organization 
of Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Guidelines for Responsible Mineral Supply Chains in 
Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas.
Establishes our objective of zero workplace injuries and occupational illnesses and benchmarks to 
evaluate our performance.
We believe in doing business only with suppliers and contractors who demonstrate the highest  
standards of ethical business conduct.
The Supplier Code of Conduct is based on the PBC and outlines  
our expectations for suppliers.
ANTI-CORRUPTION
COMMUNITY
ENVIRONMENTAL
HUMAN RIGHTS
POLITICAL ACTIVITY 
& SPENDING
RESPONSIBLE 
SOURCING OF 
MINERALS
SAFETY & HEALTH
SUPPLIER CODE 
OF CONDUCT
We are guided by 
our Principles of 
Business Conduct, 
which highlights our 
core values
Our Cerro Verde mine in Peru supports organic quinoa farms in the Arequipa region.
OUR APPROACH
12  |  2019 Sustainability Report
Defining Responsible Production 
Freeport-McMoRan is Foremost in Copper.
Critical to this is  
our role in setting the benchmark for Responsible Production 
 in the industry.
FRAMEWORK DEVELOPMENT 
In 2019, we continued our work with both the ICMM and ICA to 
develop site-based sustainability frameworks that aim to 
provide greater assurance and transparency to stakeholders 
while continuously improving conditions at our operations.
The Copper Mark 
framework currently is focused on copper producers at the 
beginning of the supply chain, but it intends to develop criteria 
for fabricators and component producers in the coming years 
with the goal of establishing a chain of custody for downstream 
companies, such as automobile and electronics producers.
While both frameworks are functionally equivalent, the Copper 
Mark is designed specifically for the copper industry and 
intends to grow to connect the entire value chain for copper 
over time.
In both cases, Freeport-McMoRan played a key role 
in the development of the requirements.
The risks included in the Risk Register are mapped from our 
commitments to enable the Risk Register to be the focal point of 
internal and external assurance at both the corporate level and 
operating sites.
2019 INTERNAL EVALUATION PROGRESS
In 2019, we developed a tool to assess our  
sites globally against both the updated ICMM 
Principles and Copper Mark frameworks to 
determine areas of strength and improvement.
THE COPPER MARK 
The Copper Mark is an assurance framework 
developed to demonstrate the copper 
industry’s responsible production practices 
and contribution to the United Nations SDGs 
– beginning with SDG 12, Responsible 
Production and Consumption.
Find out more at www.coppermark.org.
Mining is an inherently 
cyclical business with production levels and profits fluctuating over the life of the mine, which can impact our social investments 
and other sustainability programs.
In 2019, Freeport-McMoRan’s direct economic contributions totaled $13.6 billion, which includes $9.6 billion in payments to 
suppliers, $2.4 billion in employee wages and benefits, $1.0 billion in payments to providers of capital,  $415 million in taxes, 
royalties and other payments to governments, and $100 million in direct community investments.
2019 SUMMARY OF KEY ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTIONS BY OPERATING REGION
For the year ended  
December 31, 2019 ($ millions)
north 
america1
south 
america
indonesia
europe
other 
countries
total
Payments to suppliers
$3,864
$1,589
$1,709
$2,416
$11
$9,589
Employee wages and benefits
$1,475
$446
$406
$103
$5
$2,435
Payments to providers of capital:
 
   Dividends and distributions
$291
$73
$9
–
–
$373
   Interest
$423
$156
$25
$40
–
$644
(Refunds from) payments to 
governments2
($242)
$65
$583
$4
$5
$415
Community investments
$46
$9
$43
$2
–
$100
Direct economic contributions
$5,857
$2,338
$2,775
$2,565
$21
$13,556
Capital expenditures3
$970
$256
$1,369
$56
$1
$2,652
1	 Includes parent company results.
A reconciliation to the 2019 Cash Payments to 
Governments schedule on page 19 can be found on Freeport-McMoRan's website.
3	 Includes costs for capital projects, which include additional payments to suppliers, employee wages and benefits, payments to providers of capital and payments to governments, not included in 
the payments to government line in table above.
Note:  These amounts were derived primarily from FCX’s publicly reported segment data.
3	 Significant environmental event is defined as a consequence rating of 3 or higher on our Risk Register.
16  |  2019 Sustainability Report
BUSINESS INTEGRITY
Freeport-McMoRan is committed to the highest level of ethical and legal conduct in  
all of our business activities.
Acting ethically involves more than simply complying with 
laws and regulations.
By keeping 
this in mind, we aspire to earn the respect, trust and confidence of our stakeholders.
Anti-Corruption
Freeport-McMoRan maintains zero tolerance for corruption of any kind, and we expect 
the same from our employees, contractors and suppliers.
Freeport-McMoRan does 
not obtain a business advantage through bribery, improper payments, kickbacks or 
any other illegal means.
In 
addition, payments to government officials are forbidden.
Our Anti-Corruption Policy and Guidelines require compliance with the United States 
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and other applicable laws of the countries and 
jurisdictions where we operate.
FCeX is a survey-based software platform designed to assess risk 
in the areas of anti-corruption, international trade and human rights.
FCeX has 
enhanced our ability to identify, assess and mitigate compliance risks.
Formal fraud risk 
assessments have been implemented at Atlantic Copper, El Abra, Cerro Verde, PT-FI 
and our corporate offices and mapped with business controls, which are tested and 
reviewed annually.
We recognize that public policy decisions can significantly 
affect our operations, future business opportunities, 
employees, shareholders and the communities where  
we operate.
In addition to operating in the United States, we have 
significant operations in Chile, Indonesia, Peru and Spain.
The company’s political activity and spending practices are 
overseen and approved by senior management.
Annually,  
the Board’s CRC reviews our political activity and spending 
practices.
Our practice is to make information concerning all political 
contributions available to our stakeholders annually by posting 
our political contributions to the sustainability section of our 
company website.
The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) is a global standard to promote transparent and 
accountable management of natural resources.
Freeport-McMoRan maintains 
significant mining operations in Indonesia and Peru, both of which are EITI-implementing countries, and  
we actively support and participate in associated in-country processes.
In addition to our country-level EITI commitments and regulatory reporting obligations, our practice is  
to voluntarily report cash payments to governments in all jurisdictions where we conduct business, as 
presented in the table below.
CASH PAYMENTS TO GOVERNMENTS1
For the year ended  
December 31, 2019 ($ millions)
U.S.
Chile
Peru
Indonesia
Other 
Countries2
Total
Corporate Income Taxes,  
Net of Refunds
 $(267)
 $14 
 $22 
 $448 
 $9 
 $226 
Withholding Taxes on  
Foreign Dividends
$1
$2
$5
$35
$1
$44
Employee Payroll Taxes3
$343
$10
$54
$80
$27
$514
Dividends
-
-
-
-
-
-
Royalties and Net  
Severance Taxes
$25
$1
$28
$135
-
$189
Property Taxes
$74
-
-
$68
$2
$144
Other Taxes and Fees4
$42
$15
$55
$196
($13)
$295
Total
 $218 
 $42 
 $164 
 $962 
 $26 
 $1,412 
1	 This schedule reflects a voluntary effort by Freeport-McMoRan to capture its cash payments to governments (net of refunds).
3	 Includes payroll taxes collected on behalf of employees and paid to governments.
This 
makes copper a crucial contributor to the energy transition and a decarbonized world.
The 
policy describes how we implement the Organization of Economic Co-operation and 
Development (OECD) Guidelines on Mineral Supply Chains in Conflict Affected and 
High Risk Areas  in our supply chain of minerals and metals.
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING OF GOODS & SERVICES
Our Supplier Code of Conduct and compliance screening processes are the foundation 
of our responsible sourcing program for goods and services.
This is a significant task,  
as it equates to over 20,000 suppliers that provide a wide breadth of goods and services 
– from small catering businesses in remote locations to large multi-nationals that 
produce heavy machinery.
In 2019, we continued strengthening this approach by 
developing a more advanced risk and data-based responsible sourcing framework.
Electrowinning at our operations in El Abra, Chile.
22  |  2019 Sustainability Report
22  |  2019 Sustainability Report
business integrity
HOLISTIC ASSESSMENT OF OUR VALUE CHAINS 
In 2019, we continued our work to update our Life Cycle Assessments (LCA)  
of cobalt and molybdenum.
To encourage our workforce 
to report potential violations of business conduct, our Compliance Line enables 
anonymous reporting.
At each of our operations, Freeport-McMoRan 
aims to be a preferred employer, neighbor, business partner and supplier.
Freeport-McMoRan’s global workforce is the foundation of our company’s success.
Our workforce is passionate about supporting the communities where we live and  
work and making a positive impact in the world.
FROM VISION
TO ACTION
The graphic below describes how we 
implement responsible production at 
Freeport-McMoRan, from Vision to 
Action.
Health & Safety
WHY IT MATTERS?
Our objective is to achieve zero 
workplace fatalities and to decrease injuries and occupational 
illnesses.
We are committed to providing a safe and healthy 
workplace and providing the training, tools and resources 
needed so our workforce can identify risks and consistently 
apply effective controls.
During 2019, we developed a refreshed health and safety 
strategy and slogan, Safe Production Matters, to globally align 
priorities, empower safe work behaviors and strengthen our 
safety culture.
We have identified key focus areas we believe will 
have the most positive effect on our health and safety success 
today and in the future.
The strategy is being rolled out 
company-wide in 2020.
Policies & Programs
•	
Safety and Health Policy – States our commitments, 
processes and management systems to meet our health 
and safety objectives.
•	
Contractor Health and Safety Manual – Defines the 
minimum expectations and requirements for contractors 
working at our operations.
•	
Occupational Health and Safety Management System – 
Our framework for managing risks and compliance 
obligations is certified in accordance with the 
internationally recognized Occupational Health and 
Safety Assessment (OHSAS) 18001 Standard.
Our Vice President of Health and Safety oversees safety in  
the organization, including implementation of company-wide 
initiatives, safety audit programs and incident investigations.
Safety performance is reported regularly to executive 
management.
COPPER & PUBLIC HEALTH: METAL OF THE FUTURE
The COVID-19 global health pandemic has spotlighted 
the substantial antimicrobial properties of copper.
Because copper has a free electron in its 
orbital shell, it easily takes part in oxidation-reductions, 
or redox, reactions.
In a hospital, this 
can be the difference between a patient leaving healthy 
or acquiring an additional illness while admitted.
Copper can play an important role in reducing 
these infections, an important contribution to 
sustainability.
Learn more at www.copper.org.
As part of  
the program, we seek to identify potentially fatal risks in the field and apply the 
controls most critical for avoidance.
The individual 
passed away in 2019.
The individual passed 
away in 2019, and the incident was not reported 
in 2018 due to this timing.
The individual passed away in 2019, and the incident was not reported in 2018 due to this timing.
Note: Our safety statistics include both employees and contractors at all of our locations.
PERFORMANCE
We measure our safety performance through regularly established benchmarks, 
including our company-wide Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR), which includes 
employees and contractors.
In 2019, we worked 142 million hours and recorded 526 
reportable injuries during the year, compared to 131 million hours and 466 reportable 
injuries in 2018.
The voluntary program is designed  
to support our workforce in staying healthy and fit for duty.
This explains the 
increase in high-risk events in 2017, and the subsequent improvement in 2018 
and 2019, as the action items implemented supported the decreasing number 
of high-risk incidents.
29
Human Rights
WHY IT MATTERS?
Human rights are internationally recognized, defined in the Universal Declaration of 
Human Rights and codified in international law.
OUR APPROACH
Respect is a core value for Freeport-McMoRan.
We aim to promote human rights through 
proactive engagement with host governments and communities and by providing 
training to our employees and contractors.
Our corporate level Human Rights Working 
Group supports our site-level implementation of the UNGPs.
We participate in multi-industry dialogues on respect for human rights including 
Business for Social Responsibility’s human rights working group, Sustainability 50’s 
executive-level, peer-to-peer collaboration forum on human rights, ICMM’s 
Community Support Working Group, and the Voluntary Principles on Security and 
Human Rights (VPs).
Policies & Programs
•	
Human Rights Policy – States our commitments to the Universal Declaration  
of Human Rights, the UNGPs and the VPs.
The company has incorporated 
standard language on human rights into our contract templates.
•	
Responsible Sourcing of Minerals Policy – Adopted and published in 2019, 
commits our business to identifying and mitigating human rights violations in our 
supply chains of minerals and metals for our downstream processing facilities.
Application of our Human Rights Policy is supported by our PBC and other core 
policies (Anti-Corruption, Community, Environmental, and Safety and Health).
The dashboard reflects the scope  
of our potential human rights risks and impacts.
Each dashboard topic is mapped  
to specific human rights to support a comprehensive, rights-driven approach.
This process  
is informed by ongoing stakeholder engagement, grievance management and the 
results of human rights impact assessments (HRIAs).
They 
involve direct input from a broad cross-section of internal and external rights-holders 
and support continuous improvement of our management systems by testing their 
effectiveness in identifying and addressing potential, actual and perceived human 
rights risks and impacts.
Our Human Rights Dashboard defines the scope of these 
assessments.
Learn more at  
www.corporatebenchmark.org.
We are deferring 
field work until conditions warrant.
INDONESIA
•	
In 2019, PT-FI continued its Human Rights Ambassador program.
We are committed to providing for or cooperating in remediation of 
adverse impacts that are caused or contributed to by our business activities.
VOLUNTARY PRINCIPLES ON SECURITY  
& HUMAN RIGHTS (VPs)
The VPs serve as guidelines for our 
security and human rights programs, 
including interactions with host 
government police and military personnel 
and private security contractors.
Our 
annual reports to the Voluntary Principles 
Plenary are available on our website and 
include country implementation details 
for Indonesia and Peru, our higher risk 
jurisdictions for security and human 
rights matters.
Cerro Verde improves irrigation and access to 
clean water to support farming in Arequipa, Peru.
Freeport-McMoRan believes that diverse, inclusive and representative workforces 
offer a broad range of experience, knowledge, background, culture and heritage, 
which can drive innovation, enhance our operations and improve our relationships 
with stakeholders.
A key to 
our success is the ability to recruit, retain, develop and advance talented employees 
with diverse perspectives.
We are committed to fostering a culture that is safety-
focused, respectful, inclusive and representative of the communities where we operate.
These policies are available in the 
local languages of the regions where we operate, and it is our expectation that our 
workforce understand and comply with our trainings, policies and procedures.
We respect the rights of our employees, including rights to freedom of association 
and collective bargaining and prohibiting forced, compulsory or child labor and human 
trafficking.
We do not tolerate any form of harassment or discrimination against 
individuals based on race, color, sex, religion, national origin, disability, age, veteran’s 
status or any other characteristic protected by applicable law.
PERFORMANCE
At the end of 2019, Freeport-McMoRan’s global workforce was comprised of 
approximately 27,500  employees and 40,600 contractors.
EMPLOYEES
(Approximately  
27,500)
GLOBAL WORKFORCE
(As of December 31, 2019)
North America	
46%
Indonesia	
25%
South America	
24%
Europe/Other	
5%
CONTRACTORS
(Approximately  
40,600)
Indonesia	
54%
North America	
29%
South America	
15%
Europe/Other	
2%
33
DIVERSITY & INCLUSION 
At the end of 2019, 13% of our global workforce was represented by women, flat from 
2018 levels.
We remain short of achieving our global target of 15% women representation in the 
global workforce.
Women made up 21% of our global hires in 2019, helping to increase 
the female share of our workforce over its current level at 13%.
In 2019, we launched a global initiative to further strengthen our focus on diversity 
and inclusion in the workplace.
Indonesia
•	
At PT-FI, women comprise the majority of our trained MineGem workforce, 
running some of the most advanced robotic haulage technology in PT-FI’s 
underground mines.
Of our 51 remote equipment operators, 30 are women –  
half of which are Papuan women.
Recruiting women into this role has provided 
additional opportunities as Indonesian law prohibits women from working in 
underground mines.
The results have been positive, with women operators 
achieving higher productivity rates than their male colleagues.
Local employment directly contributes to the 
economic and social development of surrounding communities.
Hiring locally is a commitment we make to the communities surrounding our operations 
and to our host countries.
We retain expatriate expertise for managerial and technical roles only when  
it is not available in local communities.
•	
Through collaboration with the San Carlos Apache Tribe, we created the  
San Carlos Training Institute in Arizona in 2012 to increase the skills and 
employability of local and rural workforces.
The program curriculum ranges 
from heavy equipment operations and maintenance to electrical applications.
Through the end of 2019, enrollees had a 50% 
graduation rate.
Indonesia 
•	
Approximately 98% of PT-FI employees are Indonesian nationals, 40% of  
whom are indigenous Papuans.
We continuously are investing in our local 
communities in Papua by implementing programs to support the development 
of their skills and employability.
•	
Our Papuan Sustainable Human Capital Development Program is designed to 
increase opportunities for indigenous Papuans to join our workforce directly  
or through contractors that support our operations.
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT 
We proactively communicate information to our employees.
Employee working at the 
underground Grasberg 
block cave development 
in Indonesia.
In 2019, our total employee turnover rate was 9%, an increase from 7% 
the year prior.
Employees under the age of 30 had 
the highest turnover rate at 16%.
Approximately 37% of our global employee population is 
covered by collective labor agreements (CLA).
Our operations in Indonesia, Europe 
and South America are all covered by a minimum of 65% representation.
In North 
America, our workforce is not represented by unions.
Most recently updated in 2018 with 
input from employees, the Guiding Principles include a problem solving process that 
complements our broader employee grievance mechanisms described above.
It is a 
unique approach that adds significant value to both the workforce and the company.
We engage openly with our employee and union leadership to negotiate and uphold 
labor agreements, recognizing that prolonged strikes or other work stoppages can 
adversely affect our business, our workforce and regional stakeholders.
There were 
no strikes or lockouts at any of our operations in 2019.
Collective bargaining is 
conducted at locations of mutual agreement, with facility accommodations made 
onsite or in satellite offices for workers' representatives to assemble.
The relationship between a mine and local communities is 
dynamic.
Mining is an inherently cyclical business with 
production levels and profits fluctuating over the life of the 
mine.
While the majority of Freeport-McMoRan’s assets are 
long-lived, mining resources are finite.
Further, increasing automation and shifts in the 
global economy are changing mining methods, processes and 
labor requirements.
OUR APPROACH
Freeport-McMoRan works actively through engagement, 
investment and partnership activities to support our host 
communities in maximizing the social and economic benefits  
of mining.
Our work increasingly is focused on supporting our 
communities to develop the requisite skills to successfully 
adapt to technological and economic changes in the future in 
order to reduce their dependency on mining over the long-term.
Policies & Programs
•	
Community Policy – Mandates engagement and 
collaboration with local communities to minimize and 
mitigate unavoidable adverse impacts while maximizing 
opportunities to deliver value from our presence.
Education is a significant component of our community engagement efforts.
The primary ways we engage with communities are through 
Community Partnership Panels in the U.S., Community 
Roundtables in South America and Community Development 
and Empowerment Teams in Indonesia.
In addition  
to these engagement models, each operation engages with 
stakeholders frequently through situation or topic-specific 
meetings, presentations or community outreach office hours.
Our social investment programs are informed by our community 
engagement efforts and partner inputs and are focused on 
education, skills development and capacity building, safety and 
health programs, small-scale infrastructure, and identification 
and development of alternative economic opportunities.
Our social investment 
programs are funded directly through each operation and  
the respective foundation or community trust funds we have 
established and maintain in the U.S., Chile, Peru and Indonesia.
Our revenues, 
and corresponding community investments, tend to vary year 
to year due to a variety of factors including the cyclical nature 
of the business.
Because the target is a lagging 
metric, it can remain high due to prior year revenues in the face 
of declining commodity prices that decrease revenue and 
community program spending in current or future years, which 
was the case in 2019.
The largest of our programs, 
DreamBuilder, a free, online entrepreneurship education 
and training program for women, continued to expand its 
reach.
To date, the program has a 
95% repayment rate and has encouraged the city of 
Safford to commit additional funds to expand the loan 
pool and stimulate small business growth.
Cerro Verde’s comprehensive nutrition 
program aims to contribute to the reduction of the 
anemia rate and increase nutrition education in our 
neighboring communities.
In the Uchumayo district,  
we provide equipment, screenings, supplements and 
education in coordination with the health centers and 
schools.
In coordination with Peru’s National School 
Food Program “Qali Warma,” we support equipping 
kitchens and school canteens and educating mothers 
and food preparation committees on proper nutrition.
Public Health
•	
Malaria, HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis remain the most common infectious 
diseases that afflict our neighboring communities.
Located in the lowland 
town of Timika, the Mitra Masyarakat hospital is PT-FI’s flagship health 
initiative, funded through the Partnership Fund.
The hospital has significant 
positive impacts on our neighboring communities by addressing these 
diseases.
The 
community grievance mechanisms are part of our commitment to provide access to 
remedy.
For grievances 
with potentially high community impacts, senior management and applicable 
government authorities are engaged, as appropriate.
This guidance integrates the effectiveness criteria outlined in the UNGPs.
United States	
67 
Indonesia	
60
Chile	
29
Peru	
9 
Europe	
5
COMMUNITY 
GRIEVANCES 
TOTAL: 170
Community Benefits	 32%
Other 	
16%
Health & Safety	
16%
Environment	
16%
Land Rights	
12%
Physical Damage 	
5%
Employment 	
2%
Indigenous Peoples	
1%
GRIEVANCE 
TOPICS (%)
Other includes security, town site/housing 
and other grievances not listed above.
2019 GRIEVANCES
Local entrepreneur with his cacao crop in  
the Grasberg Mine project area in Indonesia.
OUR APPROACH
Freeport-McMoRan’s local stakeholder engagement and social investment objectives include formal 
interactions with indigenous peoples in Papua, Indonesia; Native Americans in the United States; and the 
traditional communities of Alto El Loa in Chile.
Our approach aims to respect the social, economic and cultural rights of indigenous peoples, including 
supporting their effective representation and participation in engagements with our company.
During 2019, we maintained our Native American College Scholarship Program, Dreamcatcher 
entrepreneurship training program and San Carlos Training Institute to support skills and education 
development for tribal students.
We hosted a similar event at our Sierrita operations for Tohono O’odham 
community members.
Our El Abra mine in Chile operates in close proximity to Alto Loa, which is comprised of 12 indigenous 
communities.
In 2019, PT-FI continued its collaboration with the indigenous Kamoro lowland 
communities.
We continued work with the Kamoro on  
the mitigation strategy, which includes regular passenger boats and bus services to 
improve access between coastal villages and Timika to support the development of 
economic livelihoods, health and education.
44  |  2019 Sustainability Report
ENVIRONMENT
Freeport-McMoRan recognizes that the very nature of our business depends on  
and impacts the natural environment.
Our goal is to conduct our mining and processing 
operations in a manner that minimizes adverse impacts on the environment and  
enables ecosystems to be protected and maintained through responsible  
environmental stewardship.
We are committed to sound environmental practices 
at all of our operations with a focus on continuous improvement.
POLICIES & PROGRAMS
Our Environmental Policy serves as the framework for the protection of natural 
resources in the regions where we live and work.
All of our mining and mineral processing operations and technology centers maintain 
Environmental Management Systems (EMS) certified to ISO 14001:2015.
As part of  
the EMS, our workforce is trained on site-specific subject areas, receives annual 
environmental refresher training and is monitored closely and supported in the field 
by environmental professionals through our Boots in the Field program.
We 
maintain a strict focus on implementing critical controls to eliminate off-site releases 
and prevent impacts to water resources.
At the corporate level, we maintain subject matter experts (SMEs) who train, develop 
and support site teams, routinely conduct site visits and manage a group of site-based 
SMEs.
FROM VISION
TO ACTION
The graphic below describes how we 
implement responsible production at 
Freeport-McMoRan, from Vision to 
Action.
46  |  2019 Sustainability Report
PERFORMANCE 
The EMS at each of our operations are independently audited on an annual basis.
An executive 
summary and responses to the most recent 2017 audit recommendations are posted on our website.
We met both objectives in 2019.
In addition, we funded a  
$200,000 supplemental environmental project in 2019  associated with the Sierrita dust events.
environment
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE INDICATORS
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
Reportable spills or releases of hazardous 
or toxic chemical1
15
33
25
17
332
NOVs related to permit exceedances, spills, 
releases or other compliance matters 
2
5
5
13
6
# of Significant Environmental Events  
(as defined by the Risk Register)
–
–
–
1
–
Cumulative Environmental Penalties
$43,000
–
$317,0003
–
$124,6824
1 	 Reportable spills excludes spills at PT-FI associated with pipeline sabotage.
Due to increased security efforts, the number of sabotage-related spills reported 
at PT-FI decreased from 68 in 2018 to 16 in 2019.
3 	 2017 penalties paid were from NOVs at Cerro Verde in 2006 and 2008.
4 	 2019 penalties paid were from NOVs at Sierrita for dust events in 2018 ($30,000) and a NOV at Cerro Verde in 2007 ($94,682).
In addition, we agreed to fund  
a $200,000 Supplemental Environmental Project associated with the Sierrita dust events.
The Cerro Verde fine was paid in 2019 from a regulatory inspection 
conducted in 2007 due to extended legal appeal process.
47
Climate
WHY IT MATTERS?
Mining is 
energy-intensive and generates significant greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions that contribute to climate change.
Finally, we are committed to aligning our climate 
strategy and related disclosures with the recommendations of 
the Task Force on Climate Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 
in the coming years.
In 2019, Cerro Verde continued to provide technical assistance to 
support agricultural productivity and cattle ranches in the region, 
completing more than 10,000 visits with 885 producers.
AMERICAS
In 2019, we undertook a significant effort to analyze our GHG emissions in the Americas  
back to 2012.
This resulted in emissions climbing during the period.
On an absolute basis, our total GHG emissions 
for this part of the business remain stable at 4.8 million 
metric tons, which is 30% lower than our Business As 
Usual projections.
A 15MW solar facility located at our Badgad operations.
50  |  2019 Sustainability Report
INDONESIA
PT-FI accounts for approximately 30% of total FCX emissions, and approximately  
50% of the company’s total direct, Scope 1, emissions.
PT-FI invests In projects to improve energy efficiency 
and engages on an ongoing basis to identify alternative sources of energy but the 
physical and economic challenges are significant.
The Paniai Regency of Papua, which 
borders the Mimika Regency where PT-FI is located, holds the potential for large-scale 
hydropower projects and a significant natural gas resource is located in West Papua.
Sustainability of the activity 
relies on the participation of a local Catholic-affiliated cooperative, Maria 
Bintang Laut (MBL), that operates the system.
The Amungme and other indigenous groups grow, harvest, process and sell 
cacao with the assistance of local cooperatives to stimulate economic growth 
and reduce dependence on PT-FI.
Cacao farmers were losing a sizable portion  
of their harvest during the drying stages because Papua is very humid and wet  
with limited amounts of direct sunlight.
This reduced losses and provided a simple sustainable solution 
requiring no electricity.
environment
Water Stewardship
WHY IT MATTERS?
OUR APPROACH
Freeport-McMoRan is dedicated to responsibly managing water resources.
We 
recognize the importance of working collaboratively with stakeholders in order to 
secure access to water in a socially and environmentally responsible manner, and we 
are dedicated to continuous improvement of our water stewardship programs.
Reduce our water footprint by transitioning to renewable or recycled  
water sources
4.
We have developed 
ground water and hydrologic (predictive) models to understand 
water availability at each of our sites.
Water Footprint
To achieve a reduced water footprint at our operations, we 
continuously analyze the sources of our water and actively 
seek renewable and recycled sources.
During 2019, we collected and analyzed more than 
19,000 water quality samples at our operations in the Americas.
Each of our active mining and metals processing facilities 
evaluate climate-related risks and opportunities through the 
Risk Register process.
PERFORMANCE
Our objective is to maintain high rates of recycled or reused water in our total 
water utilization, and our performance has exceeded 80% in recent years.
82% of our total utilized water 
was from recycled or reused sources.
Cerro Verde is the world’s largest copper 
concentrating facility located in the arid Arequipa 
region in Southern Peru.
To support water 
requirements for mining and processing and for  
our local communities, Cerro Verde has made 
significant investments in local water infrastructure: 
1.
Co-financed the construction of dams to 
increase water storage capacity from the 
Chili River
2.
Built a water treatment system for potable 
drinking water
3.
Today, 50% of Cerro Verde’s 
water utilization is from the WWTP and 50% is 
sourced from the Chili River.
Tailings are 
the by-products of processing and extracting metals from ore.
Typically, our tailings comprise a slurry of finely ground natural 
rock particles, which are transported from processing facilities to 
management and storage facilities.
OUR APPROACH 
Freeport-McMoRan has comprehensive measures in place  
to ensure that the facilities are designed, built, operated and 
monitored to minimize risk to employees, neighboring 
communities and the environment.
Safe, robust and reliably constructible designs are paramount.
This 
stakeholder group ensures decisions made at our operations 
reflect our corporate values and include environmental, technical, 
social and economic aspects.
Once we understand preferred 
options, conceptual and design phases proceed with our EoR and 
we engage external stakeholders on formal options studies, as 
appropriate.
AMERICAS 
Freeport-McMoRan affiliates in the Americas currently  
operate 18 active TSFs and manage 58 inactive or  
reclaimed TSFs.
environment
Facilities by  
design & Status
Upstream
Centerline
Downstream
Active
13
5
–
Inactive or Closed
52
5
1
2019 Tailings Review Board quadrennial review of Morenci tailings facility in Arizona.
54  |  2019 Sustainability Report
55
Policies & Programs
Our objective is to have zero catastrophic structural failures at any of our TSFs.
Today, we employ substantial engineering expertise, 
technological monitoring, and local and corporate management oversight to validate 
these facilities are designed, built, operated and monitored to minimize risk to employees, 
neighboring communities and the environment.
•	
Site Tailings Management, Engineers and Operations – Implements the 
program and regularly monitors, identifies and addresses potential risks.
For closed and inactive sites, we have a similar oversight structure that reports 
through the Vice President of Environmental Services and Sustainable Development 
and includes the same site-level engineers, EoRs, TSTs and TRB structures.
The review and inspection processes produce recommended actions, which we 
track until implemented.
Examples include actions we began in 2018 and continued in 2019 to construct 
buttresses out of an abundance of caution.
We initiated construction of a buttress at Henderson and will continue to raise it in a 
proactive phased approach in coming years.
INDONESIA 
PT-FI operates a controlled riverine tailings management system implemented based on methods approved 
and permitted by the Government of Indonesia.
PT-FI tailings are the finely ground natural rock particles that 
remain after the economically valuable minerals have been removed from the ore.
Quantities of finer tailings and other sediments deposit in the estuary and the sea to the South.
This system design was selected after a careful and comprehensive analysis of more than 12 alternatives 
in partnership with the Government of Indonesia.
This system has been in service for more than 
20 years and has performed safely with no human health related issues.
•	
Site Tailings Management, Engineers and Operations – Implements the program and regularly 
monitors, identifies and addresses potential risks associated with ModADA and coastal zone areas.
They meet onsite 
to assess system performance and risks associated with the ModADA and coastal zone area and 
focus on the structural integrity of the levees and the geochemical stability of the deposition.
Impacts of the system, including increases in 
sedimentation, were predicted in numerous studies and are consistent with the 
design and operation.
The 
approved Terms of Reference for these studies were signed in the fall of 2019.
The ModADA 
Management Board is 
an expert panel that 
meets on-site to  
assess tailings system 
performance and to 
provide oversight and 
recommendations to 
PT-FI leadership and 
engineering teams 
ModADA Management Board members inspect the performance 
of the levee in a tailings deposition area in Indonesia.
58  |  2019 Sustainability Report
Biodiversity
WHY IT MATTERS?
Freeport-
McMoRan is committed to proactively managing the impacts of our mining 
operations on the environment including biodiversity.
Proactive management is 
critical to maintaining social acceptance from our local communities and expected 
by our global stakeholders.
OUR APPROACH 
Freeport-McMoRan seeks to avoid and minimize the adverse impacts of our 
operations on biodiversity and ecosystem services while promoting opportunities  
to conserve and enhance resources in the areas where we operate.
•	
Wildlife Habitat Council’s Conservation Certification (WHC) – We participate 
in the program, which formally recognizes meaningful biodiversity conservation, 
environmental education and community outreach programs.
Eighteen of our 
operating sites and facilities currently are certified through WHC, 15 of which are 
recognized with gold-tier certifications.
We seek to engage our 
employees, local communities and other interested stakeholders in this work.
A key internal stakeholder engagement 
effort is our annual biodiversity photo contest.
The 2019 winning photos are available to view on our website.
We aim to foster 
diverse partnerships 
with global 
stakeholders to 
achieve greater 
accountability  
and promote the  
long-term efficacy  
of our biodiversity 
programs
59
Guanaco endangered species conservation program at Cerro Verde, Peru.
60  |  2019 Sustainability Report
environment
AMERICAS
Our commitment to biodiversity conservation is further evidenced by our Biodiversity 
Action Plans that aim to address risks while promoting conservation opportunities.
Fish and 
Wildlife Service to support conservation of federally 
listed species, including the spikedace and loach 
minnow fish and the southwestern willow flycatcher 
birds.
In 2019, we conducted our annual surveys as 
part of our management plans (spring and fall for fish 
species and summer for bird species).
Morenci 
Arizona
In June 2019, continued our efforts to trans-locate 
bighorn sheep from the mine to other habitats in the 
state in collaboration with Arizona Department of 
Game and Fish.
Sierrita  
Arizona
In January/February 2019, salvaged and relocated 
176 endangered Pima pineapple cactus from the mine 
site to a company-owned conservation easement.
Henderson 
Colorado
In June/July 2019, the Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
Department surveyed the boreal toad population on  
our property as part of our ongoing conservation 
partnership.
Cerro Verde 
Peru
Progressed conservation programs to protect 
endemic cacti and endangered species, including the 
guanaco and Peruvian long-snouted bat.
Continued 
monitoring increased aquatic and avian species in the 
Chili River.
61
RESEARCH & MONITORING 
PT-FI conducts research and monitoring in area ecosystems ranging from approximately 
4,000 meters above sea level to coastal and marine areas.
Routine flora and fauna monitoring 
is conducted through collaboration with consultants, research organizations and universities.
EDUCATION & BIODIVERSITY OUTREACH PROGRAMS  
Education and outreach is a major focus of PT-FI’s biodiversity efforts, including 
construction of wildlife sanctuaries and the creation of the Natural Succession Discovery 
Park on a former tailings disposal area to serve as an outdoor education classroom.
In 2019, 
2,697 school children visited the Discovery Park and 58 volunteers supported PT-FI 
planting mangroves in the estuary.
CONTINUED RE-VEGETATION & RESTORATION 
The Ajkwa and Waii Islands in the Ajkwa Estuary to accelerate mangrove colonization has 
resulted in approximately 300 hectares of newly formed land through 2019.
Conserving and protecting 
Papua’s biodiversity and ecosystem is a priority for both PT-FI and Freeport-McMoRan.
Through the site’s Biodiversity Action Plans, we aim to:
1.
Recognize the important role biodiversity plays in sustainable development.
Establish a strong partnership with multiple stakeholder groups involved in conservation 
and natural resource management, including local governments and citizens.
Effectively manage local biodiversity for the region, including monitoring, 
restoration, reclamation and reforestation programs.
Provide biodiversity education, research and information opportunities.
Countering illegal wildlife 
trade is a priority for Papua’s natural resource agencies and part of PT-FI’s commitment to 
biodiversity conservation.
PT-FI cooperates with the Indonesia Animal Rescue Center,  
Papua Regional Police, Forest Protection & Nature Conservation, Forest Rangers, Forestry 
Department, Lorentz National Park Center, and Wasur National Park Center to repatriate 
protected animals to their habitats.
environment
Mine Closure & Reclamation
WHY IT MATTERS?
Mining requires the development of infrastructure such as 
open-pit mines, roads and processing facilities that can alter  
the natural environment.
Freeport-McMoRan understands that effectively reclaiming 
disturbed land and responsibly closing our mine sites is critical  
to maintaining the trust of our local communities, governments 
and other interested stakeholders.
OUR APPROACH
Freeport-McMoRan’s reclamation and mine closure planning 
processes are integral to our site planning and ongoing 
operations.
At each of our operations, we have mine closure and reclamation 
plans with site-specific environmental measures designed  
to minimize long-term impacts, promote eco-system  
re-establishment and protect the watersheds where we operate.
To support future anticipated closure and reclamation costs, 
each operating mine site has asset retirement obligations  
which are estimated and accounted for in accordance with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission's  requirements and 
subject to review by an independent accounting firm.
The most important outcome from 
the Henderson Challenge is for county leadership to understand 
that there are viable options for supporting long-term economic 
development once the mine ceases operation.
Waste Management
WHY IT MATTERS?
Responsible management and disposal 
of these materials is critical for complying with environmental 
regulations and to maintaining community and environmental 
health and social acceptance of our operations.
The volume of mining  
and processing wastes varies depending on site operating  
plans and is managed in designated, engineered stockpiles  
and impoundments.
The team is responsible for advancing our technical 
expertise and developing leadership skills through multi-site 
collaboration.
Our experts provide guidance on applicable laws and 
regulations to support global consistency in our waste management 
programs and the company’s Environmental Policy.
In 2019, we delivered 65 desks and 150 
chairs to schools and educational institutions.
