T
he nature of our business impacts the environment and communities surrounding our operations.
We mitigate impacts to the extent 
practicable through state-of-the-art control and remediation measures.
We develop infrastructure, support health, safety and education 
efforts, and provide local employment and business development opportunities.
The products we produce are critical for sustainability and 
higher standards of living.
To supply essential natural resources to current and future generations, we are guided by our stated business 
objectives, principles and policies, and we continuously improve our sustainable development programs.
SOCIAL
Operate safely, and uphold and respect human rights.
This enhances our ability to obtain permits to 
operate and ensures we have a dedicated workforce.
Supporting this framework are internal 
governance and management systems that provide the essential 
details on how we operate.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE
The Corporate Responsibility Committee of our Board of Directors 
is responsible for overseeing our policies and programs related to 
the environment, human rights, safety and health, governmental 
and stakeholder relations, community health and social 
investments.
The Committee examines key performance data and 
receives briefings concerning challenges and emerging issues in 
these areas.
In addition, during the year, the Corporate 
Responsibility Committee reviewed our HIV/AIDS prevention 
program in Indonesia, malaria prevention program in the DRC, 
global social programs and expenditures, and political activity 
and spending practices.
The team is sponsored by our 
Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer, 
and is led by our Vice President of Environmental Services and 
Sustainable Development.
The team includes business unit 
presidents and senior personnel from the safety, supply chain, 
human resources, sales, compliance, and land and water functions.
We 
consider early and effective engagement with stakeholders critical 
for creating mutual opportunities and reducing sustainability-risks 
to our plans.
We seek strategic partnerships with host governments, 
communities and development partners to ensure the viability 
of our projects while delivering meaningful benefits.
Our mining operations maintain 5-year community engagement 
and development plans that identify affected or interested parties 
and appropriate methods for ongoing engagement.
Local strategies 
for stakeholder engagement are aligned with business-related 
risks and opportunities identified in each operation’s Sustainable 
Development Risk Register.
Key topics of interest included safety 
and occupational health, controlled riverine tailings management at 
PTFI, human rights, security and community engagement programs.
More than 30 participants from 
over 20 entities, including academia, NGOs, business partners and the 
investment community, participated and provided meaningful input 
with respect to our human rights programs.
The health 
and safety management systems and environmental management 
systems of our operations obtain independent certification to 
Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001 
and International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001, 
respectively.
This review process complements our operational Sustainable 
Development Risk Register procedure for existing operations.
Key areas of focus identified at scoping 
stages include access to water, energy and materials, potential 
impacts to hydrology, air quality, human rights, community 
receptivity to the project, economic impacts, and land acquisition 
and resettlement.
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT RISK REGISTER 
The Freeport-McMoRan Sustainable Development framework is 
designed for alignment with the ICMM Sustainable Development 
Framework and implemented based on site-specific factors 
and influences over the short to long term.
Essential to our framework is the 
Sustainable Development Risk Register process, which prioritizes 
environmental, social and economic challenges and opportunities 
based on our views of potential impacts to our business and the 
importance of these topics to stakeholders.
Our Sustainable Development Department works with operational 
management teams to review operational risks to ensure the process 
is effective in articulating and prioritizing key business risks and 
associated action and monitoring plan elements.
As a result, PTFI is developing an operational-
level Sustainable Development Risk Register standard operating 
procedure (SOP), which exceeds the requirements of the corporate 
SOP and incorporates a unique management structure to address a 
large, geographically complex operation.
We present specific operations 
where the focus area is currently of particular significance.
OUR APPROACH
8  
Leaders of Freeport-McMoRan’s South American operations join members of the corporate 
Sustainable Development Department during an annual environmental and sustainable 
development workshop in Santiago, Chile.
We manage our operations in a manner to identify impacts and, where practicable, implement actions 
that conserve and enhance biodiversity (including reclamation activities).
Cerro Verde, PTFI, TFM 
p. 15
Energy 
Management
Energy generally represents approximately 20 percent of our consolidated copper production costs.
All Mining Operations
p. 26
Labor 
Relations
As of December 31, 2013, approximately 50 percent of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements.
We 
continue to engage openly with our employees and union leadership to successfully negotiate labor agreements recognizing that 
prolonged strikes or other work stoppages at our operations can adversely affect our business and local and regional stakeholders.
Cerro Verde, Operations in Chile, PTFI
p. 12
Safety and Health
We sadly incurred 35 fatalities in 2013, including the loss of 28 workers in a fall of ground event in an underground training 
facility at our Indonesian mining operations.
Protecting the safety, health and welfare of our workforce is a core value.
The Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights serve as guidelines for our security and human rights 
programs, interactions with host government police and military personnel, and with private security contractors.
Cerro Verde, PTFI, TFM
p. 17
Tailings and 
Waste Rock 
Management
Managing the volume of waste rock, leach material and tailings produced in our mining operations presents significant 
environmental, safety and engineering challenges.
Cerro Verde, Morenci, PTFI, Sierrita, TFM
p. 29
Water Supply 
and Management
We require significant quantities of water for mining and ore processing.
Most of our operations in North and South America 
are in areas where water is scarce; continuing access to water is significant from the perspective of multiple stakeholders, 
including local communities.
Some mined 
material can generate acid rock drainage and when properly managed, the impact from these solutions can be contained 
and controlled.
All Mining Operations
p. 28
SUSTAINABILITY FOCUS AREAS
PERFORMANCE TARGETS
10  
PERFORMANCE TARGETS
2013 Status
2013 Performance Description
Target Date
Business Ethics
With our online training module, annually train 90% of targeted 
employees who interact with, or have the potential to interact 
with, government officials on anti-corruption laws, regulations 
and Company policies and procedures
 √
95% of targeted employees completed the anti-corruption online 
training course.
Annually 
Recurring
Workforce
Increase the percentage of women in our workforce, including 
representation in managerial positions, to 15%
X
Women comprise 10% of our employee population and hold 12% 
of all managerial positions, which is relatively unchanged from 
recent years.
Ongoing
Safety & Health 
Incur zero fatalities
X 
Sadly, we incurred 35 work-related fatalities in 2013.
Annually 
Recurring
Meet company-wide total recordable incident rate (TRIR) of 0.55
 X
Our TRIR(a) was 0.74 for 2013.
The shortfall is primarily related 
to timing of the community infrastructure projects at PTFI and 
lower contributions to the PTFI Partnership Fund due to decreases 
in production.
Annually 
Recurring
Incur zero penalties more than $100,000
 √
Our operations did not incur any penalties exceeding $100,000.
The ability to achieve 
our business goals depends on successfully recruiting and retaining 
talented employees.
LOCAL HIRING AND SKILLS DEVELOPMENT
We make concerted efforts to hire locally, as this practice promotes 
understanding of local cultures and complements our long-standing 
commitment to community engagement and development.
At 
our TFM operation, 98 percent of our employees are Congolese 
citizens.
The program is designed to train and certify students in 
heavy equipment operations and industrial maintenance.
Through 
the end of 2013, 200 students have entered the program and 42 have 
graduated – most of whom have been hired or are in the process 
of being hired.
Graduates have found employment at our operations, 
other companies or with businesses supporting the mining industry 
in Chile.
Workforce Development Training programs in 2013 at our 
corporate office in Phoenix, Arizona.
Our learning and leadership development team 
offers employees courses designed to align with 
Freeport-McMoRan’s leadership competencies 
and expectations.
Senior technical advisor, Aldo Perazzonem, demonstrates set-up procedures for proper 
oxyacetylene welding to San Carlos Apache students at the Freeport-McMoRan Mine 
Training Institute.
EMPLOYEES
Approximately 36,100 as of December 31, 2013
37% North America 
34% Indonesia 
16% South America 
  9% Africa
  4% Europe/Other
 
CONTRACTORS
Approximately 38,400 as of December 31, 2013
50% Indonesia 
34% South America 
10% Africa 
  5% North America 
  1% Europe/Other
Workforce data includes FM O&G 
WORKFORCE
12  
LABOR RELATIONS
Our workforce increased to approximately 36,100 employees and 
38,400 contractors by year-end 2013.
Approximately 50 percent 
of our employee population is covered by collective bargaining 
agreements and 1 percent of our labor force is covered by 
agreements that will expire during 2014.
We work cooperatively 
with 24 unions worldwide.
Our policy is to ensure fair treatment 
and work conditions for all employees, including rights to freedom 
of association and collective bargaining.
DIVERSITY 
We operate in regions of varying ethnic, religious and cultural 
backgrounds and are generally the largest employer in local 
communities.
We seek ways to recruit and foster career development for 
women in our Company as women traditionally have been 
underrepresented in the mining sector.
We participated in over 30 recruiting events in 2013, 
including those intended to increase the diversity of our employee 
base, such as the MBA Women International career expo and the 
Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers annual conference.
Karla Peabody, a metallurgist at the Safford operation in Arizona, maintains a piezometer on 
the Phase I leach pad.
Piezometers provide real-time solution level data to metallurgists who 
monitor the structural integrity of leach pads to ensure the safe production of copper.
Our 
philosophy of Safe Production is demonstrated by the integration 
of safety practices in all aspects of our operational activities.
Safety is the responsibility of all employees and managed by a 
formal structure starting with our Safety and Health Policy.
Our 
Board of Directors requires comprehensive audits to assure the 
safety management system is effective, weaknesses are identified, 
and resources are applied to achieve the Company’s policy 
objectives.
Independent health and safety audits are conducted at 
all sites on a 2-year rotating cycle, including 19 audits conducted 
in 2013.
These independent audits are supplemented with ongoing 
internal safety audits and inspections that focus on specific hazards 
or on operations performing below safety targets.
We draw no distinction between contractors and our own 
employees with regard to health and safety performance and 
reporting.
Based on OHSAS 18001, our Health and Safety 
Management System consists of a framework for managing risks 
and compliance obligations.
We worked 175 million hours in 2013 
compared to 169 million in the prior year, and we recorded a total 
of 649 reportable injuries in 2013 compared to 487 in 2012.
In response to the accident, and in consideration of recommendations 
made by government inspectors, independent experts, and the 
internal Investigation Steering Committee, PTFI has undertaken 
a number of actions to improve safety.
Key measures include 
a complete review of ground support in PTFI’s underground 
workings, removal of all ceilings or other barriers to line of sight, 
and improvements to inspection and monitoring programs.
* Includes FM O&G 
TRIR = [(Fatalities + Lost Time Incidents + Restricted Duty Incidents + Medical Treatment) x 200,000] / Total Hours Worked
	
2009	
2010	
2011	
2012	
2013*
Workplace Fatalities	
3	
2	
5	
6	
35
Total Recordable Incident Rate	
0.74	
0.65	
0.61	
0.58	
0.74
Occupational Illness Cases 	
9	
6	
16	
25	
41
SAFETY AND HEALTH SUMMARY DATA
Including Contractors
SAFETY AND HEALTH
14  
We continue to aggressively refine and improve elements of our 
Fatality Prevention Initiative, which emphasizes identification and 
management of potentially fatal risks.
The guideline now includes an updated list of Global 
Significant Risks (GSRs) which require specific task training on 
critical control identification and implementation.
In addition, we are developing core 
training modules on GSRs that are universal to our operations, 
including but not limited to confined space, work at height, open 
holes, and lockout / tagout / tryout.
Competencies will be measured 
through written and practical evaluations.
A key component of our Fatality Prevention Initiative continues 
to be the company-wide communication of potential fatal event 
(PFE) advisories, which describe any incident that has the potential 
for a fatal consequence.
In 2013, the Company issued 53 PFEs, 
which are treated as if an actual fatality occurred and a full incident 
investigation is required.
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH 
Freeport-McMoRan operations maintain comprehensive 
occupational health programs to assess the risk of exposure to 
occupational health hazards and implement adequate controls 
for the workforce.
Our Field Guide for Occupational Health and 
Industrial Hygiene defines occupational exposure limits, standards 
and practices that apply globally.
There were 41 occupational 
illness events in 2013, an increase of 64 percent from the prior year.
No permanent disabilities resulted 
from these occupational illness cases.
Each incident was subjected 
to a job safety analysis by safety and health specialists to further 
define and promote recognition of hazards and implement controls 
to prevent recurrence where applicable.
The “Red Hats” participate in an intensive 90-day training program 
focused on the Company’s Safe Production philosophy.
The Freeport-McMoRan Principles of Business 
Conduct are a commitment to integrity and define the expected 
behavior of all employees and our Board of Directors.
We conduct 
comprehensive training on our Principles of Business Conduct, 
including annual certification of management-level employees (98 
percent trained in 2013).
Of the 12,180 employees selected in 
2013, 94 percent completed the training.
We do not tolerate the offering or 
payment of bribes, kickbacks or other similar 
payments to any person or organization or 
government official to secure advantages for 
our business.
Likewise, we do not accept any of 
these payments.
Our Anti-Corruption Policy and Guidelines assist 
in ensuring compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices 
Act of 1977 (FCPA) and other relevant anti-corruption laws, 
including local laws.
The training module was issued to employees 
who regularly interact with government officials.
During 2013, we held in-person classroom training at TFM for 
key departments, including Government Relations, Travel, 
Immigration and Logistics.
Anti-corruption training 
at TFM reached more than 90 employees 
and contractors.
In recognition of the potential legal liability 
for the actions of our business partners 
under the FCPA and other laws, the 
Company finalized development of an 
online due diligence platform, the Freeport 
Compliance eXchange (FCeX).
FCeX is a 
survey-based software platform designed to 
assess risk in the areas of anti-corruption, 
international trade controls and human 
rights.
INFORMATION AND REPORTING
Freeport-McMoRan maintains a Compliance Line to provide 
guidance and assistance to workforce members with any questions 
or concerns related to our Principles of Business Conduct.
BUSINESS ETHICS
16  
TRANSPARENCY OF GOVERNMENT PAYMENTS 
In 2008, we endorsed and committed to support the Extractive 
Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), which is a commitment 
for governments to disclose revenues, and for oil, gas and mining 
companies to disclose natural resource payments to governments 
in order to advance responsible governance and accountability.
A 
Freeport-McMoRan executive serves on the EITI International 
Board of Directors and other employees directly participate in 
supporting in-country EITI processes.
The DRC, temporarily suspended but fully engaged with the EITI, 
and Indonesia are candidate countries under EITI.
Our TFM and 
PTFI operations directly participate and support implementation 
of each country’s work plan, respectively.
TFM participates as a 
member of the DRC EITI multi-stakeholder group.
On March 19, 2014, the U.S. was 
accepted as a candidate country by the EITI.
In addition to our country-level 
EITI commitments, our practice is to report annual material 
cash payments to governments in all countries where we conduct 
business, as presented below.
Corporate Income Taxes, Net of Refunds	 $     128	
$  204	
$  336	
$ 160	
$     2	
$   3	
$    833
Withholding Taxes on Foreign Dividends	
–	
183 	
–	
–	
–	
–	
183
Employee Payroll Taxes	
523	
24	
46	
118	
42	
24	
777
Dividends	
–	
–	
–	
–	
–	
–	
–
Royalties and Net Severance Taxes	
240	
55	
–	
101	
29	
–	
425
Property Taxes	
125	
1	
–	
9	
–	
2	
137
Other Taxes and Fees	
115	
41	
103	
110	
106                  
	
(16)	
459
Total 	
$ 1,131	
$ 508	
$ 485	
$ 498	
$ 179	
$ 13	
$ 2,814
(a) This schedule reflects a voluntary effort by Freeport-McMoRan to capture its material cash payments to governments (net of refunds), including payments by FM O&G.
We have established site-specific human rights 
policies and procedures consistent with the Freeport-McMoRan 
Human Rights Policy, in-country laws and regulations, 
and the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights 
(Voluntary Principles).
Our 
preliminary findings from the human rights impact assessment 
illustrated that our greatest potential impacts globally are related to 
environmental and community issues, and our greatest actual and 
perceived impacts are related to community and employee issues.
FCeX is a survey-based software platform 
designed to assess risk and includes a questionnaire to suppliers 
for completion prior to being approved as a business partner or 
when a contract is due for renewal.
The process includes an assessment 
of risks and opportunities associated with human rights to embed 
early in project plans.
All existing operations 
continue to evaluate human rights risks on an ongoing basis as part 
of the Sustainable Development Risk Register process.
PTFI employs approximately 750 unarmed personnel and 
130 unarmed private security and transportation and logistics 
contractors that perform functions such as protecting facilities, 
monitoring shipments of supplies and products, assisting in 
traffic control and aiding in emergency response operations.
This designation results in the police, and to a lesser extent, 
the military, playing a significant role in protecting the area of 
our operations.
The Government of Indonesia is responsible 
for employing police and military personnel and directing their 
operations.
In 2013, PTFI entered into a revised and updated 
Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Provincial 
Commander of the National Police.
The MoU covers a 3-year term 
and details the working relationship between PTFI and the public 
security personnel, including areas of support, coordination and 
commitment to PTFI policies and procedures, including business 
ethics and human rights.
The Voluntary Principles are included 
in the MoU.
PTFI’s share of support costs for the government-
provided security was $25 million for 2013.
This supplemental 
support consists of infrastructure and other costs, such as food, 
housing, fuel, travel, vehicle repairs, allowances to cover incidental 
and administrative costs, and community assistance programs 
conducted by the military and police.
PTFI continues to respond with measures of enhanced 
security for both personnel and material transport.
To date, no 
persons or entities have claimed responsibility for these incidents, 
and the Company continues to call for full investigations and justice.
TFM’s operations have
not been impacted by this reported activity nor has the activity 
altered any future operational or expansion plans.
TFM and 
local authorities continue to work in a cooperative manner, 
including hosting monthly security meetings to proactively address 
potential civil unrest.
TFM employs approximately 350 unarmed security employees 
and 390 unarmed private security contractors.
In addition to 
these security personnel, the national government has assigned 
approximately 140 Mines Police to the TFM concession area.
The Mines Police are a division of the Congolese National Police 
TFM, in coordination with United National Organization Stabilization Mission (MONUSCO), 
conducts human rights training for civil society members, host government security forces, 
and its workforce.
Former TFM President Mike Ciricillo, TFM Human Rights Compliance Officer 
Nzati Didier-Michel and TFM Community Grievance Manager Cathy Kongola join a group of 
stakeholders who have completed a full-day human rights training session.
TFM has entered into a MoU with the 
Mines Police that details the working relationship between TFM 
and the Mines Police, including areas of support, coordination 
and commitment to TFM policies and procedures, including 
business ethics and human rights.
The Voluntary Principles are 
incorporated in the MoU.
Provision of support is consistent with 
our obligations under our agreements 
with the respective governments, our 
philosophy of responsible corporate 
citizenship and the Voluntary Principles.
We periodically review our support 
practices to ensure they are appropriate, 
lawful and properly controlled.
REPORTING AND ENGAGEMENT 
MECHANISMS
In 2013, 34 human rights-related allegations 
were reported to the PTFI Human Rights 
Compliance Officer compared to 19 in 
the prior year.
In 2013, a joint site and corporate assessment was conducted to 
identify areas for strengthening the current human rights grievance 
mechanism.
In 2013, 17 human rights allegations were reported to and recorded 
by the TFM Human Rights Compliance Officer compared to 12 
in 2012.
That case was investigated by local authorities 
and closed on the basis of insufficient evidence.
Freeport-McMoRan is a leading international natural resources 
company with headquarters in Phoenix, Arizona.
The company operates large, long-lived, geographically 
diverse assets with signiﬁcant proven and probable reserves of copper, gold, molybdenum, cobalt, oil 
and gas.
The Company has reserves in geographically diverse operations including Indonesia, Democratic 
Republic of Congo (DRC), Chile, Peru and the United States.
In 2014, 
we plan to conduct a security and human rights risk assessment of these assets and identify any high risk 
areas where Voluntary Principles implementation should be incorporated.
Country implementation details are provided for Indonesia and the DRC, as our operations in 
these locations represent our most signiﬁcant security and human rights challenges.
Statement of Commitment or Endorsement of the Voluntary Principles 
In 2000, Freeport-McMoRan joined other mining and oil and gas companies, governments and human 
rights organizations in endorsing the joint U.S. Department of State-British Foreign Oﬃce Voluntary 
Principles on Security and Human Rights.
We engage openly and transparently with 
local stakeholders to facilitate our ability to operate and grow 
our business.
Our Community Policy calls for collaboration with 
communities to minimize and mitigate adverse impacts and 
cultivate opportunities to maximize benefits.
Coupled with the Freeport-McMoRan Chile Foundation for 
social investment, we anticipate significantly increased strategic 
stakeholder engagement and community development activities in 
Chile beginning in 2014.
Each operation’s 5-year community 
engagement and development plan is updated annually, and links 
to the Sustainable Development Risk Register so that engagement 
methods and development objectives are aligned with identified 
risks and opportunities for the business.
We 
continuously evaluate these systems to ensure their effectiveness.
Approximately 485 community grievances were recorded at 
worldwide operations during 2013, of which about half were 
related to resettlement at TFM (described below).
TFM maintains 
an Independent Mediation Committee (IMC) to independently 
and impartially resolve grievances.
Mediation only occurs if 
the complainant is not satisfied with TFM’s resolution to the 
initial grievance recorded through the grievance system and the 
complainant requests the grievance be presented to the IMC.
In 
2013, the IMC received 34 cases, of which 12 were resolved (related 
to community resettlement, safety and employment) and the 
remaining 22 are in process.
Types of 
grievances processed include those related to employment, blasting, 
dust emissions and land rights.
TFM maintains a 
Land Access, Compensation, and Resettlement Policy Framework 
which is a public document that sets out the principles, procedures, 
entitlements, eligibility criteria and organizational arrangements 
governing TFM’s compensation for involuntary resettlement 
impacts.
For each phase of any resettlement, TFM conducts 
a comprehensive socio-economic baseline and census, and then 
prepares a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP).
The Oxide Project ESIA 
was completed and an area-specific RAP has been drafted.
The Mitumba-Fungurume Hills RAP is expected to impact 
approximately 1,240 surveyed households, through physical and/
or economic displacement.
TFM will develop 
additional area-specific RAPs as the Oxide Project advances.
In addition, land rights trust funds for the Amungme 
and Kamoro tribes were created in 2001 to provide voluntary 
special recognition for holders of the hak ulayat.
In 1996, PTFI established the Freeport Partnership Fund for 
Community Development (the Partnership Fund), through which 
PTFI has made available funding and technical assistance to support 
the economic, health, education and social development for the 
indigenous Papuan community.
Through the Partnership Fund, 
PTFI has committed to provide 1 percent of its annual revenue 
for the development of the indigenous Papuan community (page 
23).
The Amungme and Kamoro Community Development 
Organization (LPMAK) is the Papuan community organization that 
oversees disbursement of the program funds.
LPMAK is governed 
by a board of commissioners and a board of directors, which are 
comprised of representatives from the local Amungme and Kamoro 
tribal communities, local government, Papuan regional leaders, 
church leaders, and PTFI.
The company supports a Papuan-operated animal 
husbandry business that employs approximately 390 Papuans in the city of Timika.
In 2013, 
the business sold over 12 million eggs and 82,000 chickens, earning approximately $2 million 
in revenue.
COMMUNITIES
22  
located between the plant and the mine.
In the U.S., engagement with Native American tribes continued 
in 2013.
Education has been identified as a priority issue for the 
partnership, and our Native American University scholarship 
program awarded 58 college scholarships to members of the 
Hualapai, San Carlos Apache, and White Mountain Apache 
tribes during the year.
In 2013, the ICMM updated its 2008 Position Statement on 
Indigenous Peoples and Mining, to which we adhere.
Additional commitments address engaging indigenous 
peoples, understanding their rights and interests, building cross-
cultural understanding, agreeing to appropriate process for 
consultation and engagement, and participating in decision making.
The variance 
from our 2013 community investment target of $193 million was 
due primarily to deferral of discretionary investments due to 
market conditions.
In addition to direct community investment from operations 
and the Freeport-McMoRan Foundation, we have established 
community foundations or social funds in Chile (established in 
January 2014 with an initial $10 million), the DRC, Indonesia, 
Peru, and the United States, which are managed by community 
members who determine the allocation of funds to priority 
programs that focus on education, health and economic 
development.
In April 2013, approximately 
800 employees, their families and friends volunteered during the 
Company’s 11th annual Global Volunteer Month, which focused on 
environmental awareness and stewardship in their local communities.
PUBLIC HEALTH
We operate in parts of the world that lack clean water and 
sanitation, and have populations with low levels of health education, 
awareness and access to adequate health services.
In coordination with 
local governments and NGOs, we dedicate significant resources to 
helping communities and governments reduce public health risks.
The HIV/AIDS 
epidemic in Papua is predominately characterized by heterosexual 
transmission, especially impacting the indigenous Papuan population.
In 2012, it received initial support from PTFI’s Micro, Small 
& Medium Business Program to open a kiosk to sell traditional bags (noken).
The women 
pictured here were sponsored by PTFI to promote and sell their indigenous crafts at the 2013 
APEC Women and the Economy Forum in Bali.
Our Cerro Verde mining operation in Arequipa, Peru has provided financial and technical support 
for efficient crop irrigation systems in surrounding communities.
COMMUNITIES
24  
treatment programs for employees and community members.
PTFI received a Community Empowerment Program Gold 
Award from the Government of Indonesia for its efforts in 
reducing HIV/AIDS, TB, and malaria, and improving maternal 
health in 2013.
Improving access to clean water is critical to improving local 
health and living standards.
The TFM Social Community Fund facilitated training for 20 
artisanal repairmen during the year and continues to monitor water 
quality and conduct capacity building of local water management 
committees to sustain the water wells through a usage fee system.
In 2013, an interim referral hospital was built as a joint partnership 
between TFM and the Fungurume Health Zone and is co-
located with the TFM employee health facilities.
Community Liaison Officers (CLOs) 
are routinely in the field to socialize the health and safety risks of 
artisanal gold panning.
PTFI focused on reducing the security risk of illegal gold panners 
interrupting operations in 2013, particularly in the highlands.
In addition, 
enhanced security surveillance systems and fencing have been added 
at the mill to minimize risk of potential human harm and damage to 
assets.
PTFI’s long-term strategy for reducing illegal gold panning is the 
development of alternative livelihoods.
Coordination with government 
authorities and local communities are ongoing and will be key to 
the long-term success of these initiatives.
In 2012, Atma Jaya Catholic University completed a comprehensive 
social baseline study of the illegal artisanal mining community and 
its supporting networks.
PTFI expects the continued daily data 
gathering and communication to be critical to the understanding of 
potential risks to operations and community relations.
With an influx of outsiders 
to the area for illegal mining activities, social ills such as increased 
crime rates have been observed.
TFM continues to engage with the DRC authorities to 
operate control measures at the entry and exit points of the concession 
to interdict shipments of illegal ore, and to implement mobile 
security monitoring.
TFM CLOs conduct awareness campaigns to 
educate the community on the risks associated with illegal artisanal 
mining activity.
TFM’s long-term strategy continues to be support 
for economic development and job creation in the region to provide 
communities with alternative opportunities for income generation.
TFM welcomes all members of the community to participate in skills 
training, small business and agriculture development.
All of our mining and mineral processing operations maintain 
Environmental Management Systems (EMS) certified to ISO 
14001, which are independently audited on an annual basis.
During 2013, we 
completed internal environmental audits at 10 operations in 
accordance with our Environmental Auditing Policy, and our 
facilities are routinely inspected by regulatory agencies.
All operations have corrective action programs associated with the 
overarching EMS.
Where 
our operations have been assessed for penalties, they typically are 
below $100,000.
For 
the year 2013, energy represented approximately 20 percent of our 
consolidated copper production costs.
* Penalties are typically paid in periods subsequent to the year of the environmental event and/or enforcement action.
In 2013, our worldwide total GHG emissions, measured as carbon 
dioxide equivalent emissions, were relatively unchanged from 2012 
at approximately 10 million metric tons divided between direct 
(58 percent) and indirect (42 percent) emissions.
The majority of our mining activity 
occurs in open pits.
As an open pit matures, haul road length 
increases and haul trucks are required to move ore additional 
distances to the processing facility.
Our current plan to produce 
over 5 billion pounds of copper by 2015 indicates increasing direct 
emissions (both absolute and intensity-based) over that time period.
In 2013, 
approximately 63 percent of our purchased power was from 
low carbon or renewable sources (we generate all of our power 
at PTFI).
Crushing, milling, pumping and electrowinning 
are the most significant power-consuming processes at our 
facilities.
The investment will promote more reliable 
renewable electricity for the region and for TFM operations.
2013 DIRECT CARBON DIOXIDE 
EQUIVALENT EMISSIONS
57% Liquid Hydrocarbons
31% Coal*
  6% Gaseous Hydrocarbons
  6% Other
By Fuel Type
 
2013 TOTAL CARBON DIOXIDE 
EQUIVALENT EMISSIONS 
44% North America
30% Indonesia
21% South America
  3% Africa
  2% Europe
By Region Type
We have received independent verification of our GHG emissions 
inventory for years 2007-2013, and the verification statement is 
available on our website.
ENVIRONMENT
28  
WATER SUPPLY AND MANAGEMENT*
Our mining operations require significant quantities of water 
for mining and ore processing, and most of our operations in 
North and South America are in water scarce regions.
These impacts to production are temporary as the in-process 
metals are available when improved operational conditions exist.
In addition to 
evaluating opportunities 
to improve site water
management, we explore 
mutual opportunities 
with stakeholders as we 
continue to make long-
term investments in water 
supply projects to support 
our operating and growth 
plans.
The plant is expected 
to improve regional water quality, reduce waterborne illnesses and 
enhance the value of local agricultural products while providing 
water for an economically important project for the region.
Mining and metals processing can create impacts to water quality.
All operations 
maintain systems to monitor water quality for compliance with 
applicable regulations and permit requirements.
In 2013, the Bagdad mine in Arizona completed construction of the world’s largest elevated 
tailings thickener.
* Water-related data in this section exclude amounts associated with all facilities 	
   located in Arizona due to ongoing water rights litigation.
* Includes desalination water, municipal water, 
   municipal waste water and water imported from 
   any other industrial or mining facility.
Managing the volume 
of waste rock and tailings produced in our mining operations 
presents significant environmental, safety and engineering 
challenges.
In 2013, we produced approximately 480 million and 
210 million metric tons of waste rock and tailings, respectively.
Management of this waste is regulated in the jurisdictions where 
we operate, and our programs are designed to be in compliance 
with applicable national, state and local laws, permits and approved 
Environmental Impact Studies.
Freeport-McMoRan currently operates 16 tailings storage facilities 
(TSFs) and manages 60 TSFs that are inactive or have been fully 
reclaimed.
At Cerro Verde, we have commenced construction 
on an expansion expected to increase annual copper production 
by 600 million pounds and annual molybdenum production by 
15 million pounds beginning in 2016.
As a result of the Morenci mill expansion and 
additional ore processing, we plan to increase the operation’s TSF 
capacity by approximately 568 million metric tons.
At TSFs located in arid areas, the tailings management program 
includes measures to reduce fugitive dust emissions from the 
surface of tailings impoundments, and increase reclaimed water 
capture to reduce freshwater consumption.
TSF stability is managed by qualified internal and external 
engineers at our operations, utilizing instrumentation with 
manual and automated data acquisition systems and established 
operations, maintenance and communication protocols.
We 
monitor phreatic level trends, deposition plans, hydrologic controls, 
seepage management, decant systems, structural integrity and other 
stability components.
In 2013, our Tailing Stewardship Program 
conducted annual field inspections at 13 active and 37 inactive 
TSFs.
Regulatory agencies and affected community members were 
promptly notified.
Restoration of local impacts to farmland, which 
commenced after spill containment, has been completed.
PTFI’s tailings 
management review board meets to assess operational and other 
monitoring data to make specific operational recommendations for 
improving levee designs and construction and system-wide 
performance.
More information on controlled 
riverine tailings management at PTFI is available on our website.
Waste rock and overburden are managed in stockpiles for possible 
future mineral recovery, reclamation or other projects.
Overburden 
and waste rock stockpiles are evaluated for structural stability and 
local seismic design criteria and are monitored regularly.
Reclamation 
takes into account surface and ground water and air quality, erosion 
concerns from storm water, revegetation of suitable plant species 
and rehabilitation of wildlife habitats.
Large-scale reclamation projects continued during 2013 at our 
Miami mine in Arizona, where more than 1,000 acres are being 
reclaimed.
Renewed mining at Miami has produced an effective 
operational synergy between mining and reclamation activities.
At the historic Bisbee mining district in 
Arizona, reclamation crews and environmental experts continue work 
on major voluntary reclamation projects encompassing approximately 
1,100 acres, including stockpiles and tailings impoundments.
As of 2013, 41 historic 
mine sites have been cleaned-up and 37 have been completely 
reclaimed.
In 2013, we continued our 5-year, $2.5 million commitment to assist 
the Colorado Inactive Mine Reclamation program.
BIODIVERSITY
We are committed to identifying the impacts of our operations 
and, where practicable, implementing actions that conserve 
and enhance biodiversity.
All operating mines have developed 
Biodiversity Action Plans (BAPs) and Land Management Plans 
(LMPs), with the assistance of our corporate Biodiversity Task 
Force (BTF).
BAPs identify potential biodiversity projects 
through a process that includes landscape-scale habitat inventory, 
assessment of biodiversity risks (linked with the operation’s 
Environmental Management System), identification of biodiversity 
opportunities, and prioritization of projects.
BAPs generally consist 
of voluntary projects conducted in partnership with stakeholder 
groups, including government agencies, academic institutions and 
NGOs.
LMPs provide the mechanism through which biodiversity 
considerations are incorporated into the site-specific planning 
process to minimize adverse impacts to biodiversity where 
practicable.
LMPs consist of data overlays that illustrate the location 
The Maurujaya MP21 Reclamation and Biodiversity Research Center is a tailings reclamation 
research facility where PTFI conducts comprehensive scientific studies to determine 
optimum plant species and planting techniques to maximize reclamation success.
In 2014, the BTF is initiating a review to evaluate 
and identify improvement opportunities for site implementation of 
BAPs and LMPs.
In 2013, all North American sites developed and began 
implementing site-specific Wildlife Protection Plans (WPPs)
in accordance with the Corporate Wildlife Protection Plan, 
which formalizes the corporate commitment to protecting 
biodiversity.
The WPPs establish a process through which 
sites assess potential risks to wildlife associated with operational 
activities and develop measures and strategies to minimize 
any risks that are identified.
In conjunction with the BAPs and 
LMPs, the WPPs represent an important component of the 
Freeport-McMoRan biodiversity program.
In 2013, the Arizona Game and Fish Commission awarded the 
Company its Award of Excellence for environmental stewardship 
and wildlife management, specifically noting the Mexican free-
tail bat habitat conservation efforts at Morenci.
During the year, 
the U.S.
The project not only promotes public 
safety, but bat gates installed at larger openings promote bat 
conservation efforts in the region.
As this field evolves, we will continue to enhance 
communications on our biodiversity systems and initiatives.
Independent lines of evidence continue to indicate the reversible 
nature of impacts at the end of mining (with the exception 
of topographical changes) as predicted during the AMDAL 
(Environmental and Social Impact Assessment) process.
This positive trend demonstrates the health of the estuary and 
its ability to support the ecosystem requirements of these avian species.
Environmental 
engineers regularly monitor the water quality and quantity to ensure the springs remain a 
thriving habitat.
Pictured above, Andean flamingos (foreground) and a vicuña (background).
The calendar showcases efforts by member companies to enhance and conserve wildlife habitat on 
corporate lands.
Winning photos selected by the Company’s Biodiversity Task Force are presented below.
(c) Excludes all facilities located in Arizona due to ongoing water rights litigation.
(d) Penalties are typically paid in periods subsequent to the year of the environmental event and/or enforcement action.
TREND DATA
2009
2010
2011
2012
        2013
Workforce(a)
Employees 
28,400
29,700
31,800
34,000
36,100
Contractors 
16,600
22,300
27,800
27,100
38,400
Percent Employees Under Collective Bargaining Agreements
45%
44%
49%
48%
49%
Safety & Health(a)
Fatalities 
3
2
5
6
35
Total Recordable Incident Rate(b)
0.74
0.65
0.61
0.58
0.74
Occupational Illness Cases
9
6
16
25
41
Environment
Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions (million metric tons)
5.2
5.6
5.4
5.7
5.9
Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions (million metric tons)
4.4
4.4
4.6
4.0
4.3
Total Water Consumption(c) (million cubic meters)
620
630
600
665
690
Percent Recycled Water
66%
66%
66%
71%
69%
Reportable spills or releases of hazardous or toxic chemicals
26
10
11
12
16
Notices of Violations related to permit exceedances, spills, 
releases or other compliance matters
6
6
6
4
10
Environmental Penalties(d) ($ thousands)
$     493
$       83
$       75
$       47
$       80
Social
Community Investments ($ millions)
$     180
$     189
$     191
$     173
$     173  
Cash Payments to Governments(e) ($ millions)
$  2,432
$  3,744
$  4,838
$  2,984
    $  2,814(a)
Direct Economic Contributions(e) ($ millions)
$15,040
$13,902
$16,559
$14,470
$17,283(a)
