 9
FCX is a leading responsible copper producer — supplying approximately 9% 
of the world’s mined copper.
As global decarbonization accelerates, demand for 
copper is expected to increase.
FCX is committed to meeting growing demand 
through our sustainability strategy — Accelerate the Future, Responsibly.
We seek to responsibly accelerate the future of copper and mining practices 
and to enhance the future for our stakeholders, which we believe is critical to 
delivering and maintaining shared value.
Accelerate the Future, Responsibly aligns with our core values and supports 
our company culture, helping to cultivate an ethical and engaged workforce 
capable of innovating the future of mining and leading our company and industry 
into a more sustainable and responsible era of mining.
•	 The challenges of tomorrow demand innovation.
We embrace this fully.
•	 Rising sustainability expectations are an opportunity to create greater 
value.
•	 Resilience and adaptability are essential characteristics and priorities 
for any organization striving to achieve enduring sustainability 
progress.
•	 Transparency and accountability are crucial to building and maintaining 
trust.
We are committed to openly engaging with and listening to our 
stakeholders.
•	 Operational Excellence: Set the standard for responsible copper and molybdenum production.
•	 Collaborative Partnerships: Earn and maintain trust with communities and stakeholders.
We seek to 
proactively and collaboratively engage our host communities, including Indigenous Peoples, to define and 
build a common vision for creating shared value.
•	 Responsible Value Chains: Responsibly deliver our products to the global economy.
Thriving Environments: Mining impacts the natural environment.
We strive to conduct our operations 
with minimal adverse impacts on the environment, and we support the protection of ecosystems through 
responsible environmental stewardship.
This commitment is embedded in our management systems and 
our approach to continuous improvement.
ACCELERATE 
THE FUTURE, 
RESPONSIBLY
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 12
OUR VALUES 
Our culture is the bedrock of FCX's sustainability strategy, aligning our 
core company values to our work.
Our core values direct the decisions 
we make as a company and as individual employees.
Respect 
We treat each other and our stakeholders with respect.
We value the 
diversity, ideas, perspectives and experiences of our employees and our 
stakeholders.
We collaborate to create and implement 
innovative ideas and to develop solutions to issues and concerns.
Commitment 
We are committed to contributing to the long-term sustainability of 
the environment and communities where we work.
We hold ourselves 
accountable for our environmental and social performance.
13
Ambitions and Performance Targets
In alignment with our sustainability strategy and informed by our materiality assessment and ongoing stakeholder engagement, we have identified our key focus areas 
and established clear ambitions and performance targets for each area, which are outlined in the tables below.
Ambition statements were not developed for compliance obligations, which 
continue to be critically important to our business.
The 2024 community investment target is subject to change.
Ambition statements were not developed for compliance obligations, which 
continue to be critically important to our business.
Significant environmental events are defined as those with a rating of 3 
or higher on the consequence scale.
We are proud to play a leading role in setting the industry 
benchmark for responsible copper production by collaborating with stakeholders to innovate and drive change.
Defining and implementing responsible production at FCX is an iterative process with continuous improvement 
at its core.
We then integrate these commitments, policies and practices into our risk register process, which drives our actions.
The graphic below 
depicts this process.
VALIDATION
GOVERNANCE
POLICIES  
& PRACTICES
STAKEHOLDER 
ENGAGEMENT
VOLUNTARY  
COMMITMENTS
RISK REGISTER
ACTIONS
MEASURE  
& REPORT
Haul truck at our El Abra operation, Chile.
21
THE COPPER MARK 
The Copper Mark is a comprehensive assurance framework that promotes 
responsible production practices.
To achieve the Copper Mark, sites are 
committed to adhering to internationally recognized responsible operating 
practices and specifically to a detailed framework based on the Responsible 
Minerals Initiative’s Risk Readiness Assessment.
The Copper Mark requires 
an independent external assurance process, including external stakeholder 
interviews, to assess conformance at each site.
FCX has achieved, and is committed to maintaining, the Copper Mark and/or  
Molybdenum Mark at all of our operating sites globally.
FCX continues to recognize the critical importance of transparently demonstrating 
our responsible production practices.
Learn more about the Copper Mark on our website and 
view our site-level assessment reports at coppermark.org.
CONSOLIDATING VOLUNTARY RESPONSIBLE  
MINING AND METALS STANDARDS
In 2023, the Copper Mark, Mining Association of Canada, ICMM and World 
Gold Council began working to consolidate their individual voluntary 
responsible mining and metals standards into a single global responsible 
mining standard with a multi-stakeholder oversight system.
This collaboration 
intends to respond to feedback from investors, civil society, customers, policy 
makers and mining companies seeking a single, streamlined mining standard 
that is transparent, robust and encourages wider industry participation.
FCX is 
involved in the consolidated standard development process, as a member of 
the Industry Advisory Group.
ICMM PERFORMANCE EXPECTATIONS 
ICMM is an organization dedicated to a safe, fair and sustainable mining and metals 
industry.
As a founding member, FCX has been a leader for over 20 years, and FCX’s 
Chairman and CEO, Richard Adkerson, served as Chair of ICMM from 2008-2011 
and 2020-2022.
ICMM member companies, including FCX, are required to comply 
with its 39 performance expectations and its 10 Mining Principles for sustainable 
development.
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 22
EMBEDDING RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTION IN GROWTH PROJECTS
As the world transitions to a lower-carbon economy, demand for copper is expected 
to increase.
We seek to support this increased global demand, responsibly.
We 
employ a variety of baselining and risk management tools to identify and evaluate 
the potential sustainability-related impacts of our operations.
As part of the internal risk review process, the Project Development Sustainability 
Review considers sustainability issues during the evaluation, and implementation 
of, potential expansion and development projects.
Key focus areas identified at different project stages have included: 
access to water, energy and materials, potential impacts to hydrology, air quality, 
biodiversity, human rights, community receptivity, economic impacts, and land 
acquisition and resettlement.
Once the 
risks and opportunities are prioritized, action plans are developed.
The risk 
register and these plans are the foundation of internal and external assurance 
processes at both the corporate level and operating sites.
The risks included in the risk register are mapped to our external commitments, 
including ICMM’s performance expectations and the Copper Mark’s 
requirements.
Our risk register assists our teams to identify and prioritize 
the most significant risks to our business and our stakeholders.
Human rights risks and impacts are considered when evaluating the 
stakeholder-related consequences of our portfolio of enterprise risks.
The ERM management committee is responsible for providing input and oversight 
on the ERM program, which seeks to link our global operations and business 
functions to (1) identify enterprise risks and opportunities, (2) analyze and prioritize 
risks, (3) review risk control environments, including through internal audit, and 
determine additional management actions where warranted, and (4) monitor and 
report progress.
Management and the company’s internal audit firm coordinate to 
align assurance activities with priority enterprise risk topics.
CYBERSECURITY RISK MANAGEMENT 
Our cybersecurity risk management and strategy processes are led by our 
Chief Information Officer (CIO) and our Chief Information Security Officer 
(CISO).
Our CIO and CISO are responsible for assessing and managing 
our material risks from cybersecurity threats and are informed about 
and oversee the prevention, detection, mitigation and remediation of 
cybersecurity incidents through their management of, and participation in, 
our cybersecurity risk management and strategy processes.
We regularly 
evaluate and assess the threat landscape and our security controls, 
including through audits and assessments, regular network and endpoint 
monitoring, vulnerability testing, penetration testing and tabletop exercises 
that include senior management.
While management is responsible for 
the day-to-day management of cybersecurity risks, our Board and Audit 
Committee have ongoing oversight roles.
A special meeting of the Audit Committee was held to review the 
cybersecurity incident, our findings and response, and the Audit Committee 
briefed the full Board on these matters.
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 24
In 2023, we began converting our fleet of 
approximately 30 haul trucks at our Bagdad 
mine in Arizona to fully autonomous.
Through our governance structures, we 
work to earn the respect, trust and confidence of our stakeholders by establishing 
and striving to live up to the highest standards of responsible performance.
Our commitment to sustainability begins at the highest levels of the company, 
with our CEO and with active oversight from our Board.
Under their leadership, 
FCX has designed and implemented rigorous policies and processes that drive 
broad engagement with, and strong accountability from, company leadership on 
our sustainability-related commitments.
These policies and processes support 
our efforts to embed sustainability into company practices and everyday decision 
making.
We seek to evaluate and strengthen our governance structures, policies 
and practices so that we can continue to achieve our sustainability strategy and 
meet evolving stakeholder expectations.
We recognize that transparency is essential to building — and maintaining — 
enduring trust with stakeholders.
Our governance policies and programs embody FCX’s commitment to ethical and 
legal conduct in all business practices and activities.
Robust 
Governance
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 26
GOVERNANCE 
WHY IT MATTERS
Effective governance aligns a company’s purpose, policies and practices to inform robust decision 
making.
OUR APPROACH 
Sustainability is embedded in FCX’s values and business strategy.
Governance and oversight of 
sustainability ultimately reside with the Board, with day-to-day management by the executive 
leadership and site-level management teams.
We have the structure and processes in place to facilitate effective decision 
making and advance our stakeholders’ long-term interests.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
The Board oversees and guides FCX’s business strategy and monitors the development and 
management of risks that impact FCX’s strategic goals, including sustainability-related risks.
Each of these committees is comprised 
entirely of independent directors and regularly reports to the full Board.
2023 KEY ESG TOPICS 
Board Meetings 
•	 Workforce health and safety 
•	 Information technology and cybersecurity 
processes and procedures
•	 Leadership development and succession planning
•	 Annual adoption of UK Modern Slavery Act 
Statement
Corporate Responsibility Committee Meetings
•	 Workforce health and safety 
•	 Climate strategy and progress update 
•	 Human rights program and performance, including 
progress on HRIAs and annual adoption of UK 
Modern Slavery Act Statement 
•	 Tailings management, including progress 
implementing the Tailings Standard in the 
Americas 
•	 Update on PT-FI’s human health assessment 
•	 Social performance and charitable contributions 
•	 Political spending review
•	 Responsible sourcing of minerals program update
•	 Shareholder engagement feedback and update on 
sustainability initiatives 
•	 Emerging expectations on biodiversity and nature
Compensation Committee Meetings 
•	 Workforce health and safety
•	 Workforce recruitment, retention and development, 
and inclusion and diversity
Audit Committee Meetings
•	 Information technology security processes and 
procedures, including risks and internal controls 
associated with information technology security 
and cybersecurity
 27
BOARD OVERSIGHT OF SUSTAINABILITY 
The CRC, on behalf of the Board, oversees FCX’s environmental and social 
policies and implementation programs and related risks.
The CRC reviews the 
effectiveness of FCX’s strategies, programs, and policy implementation with respect 
to health and safety, responsible production frameworks, tailings management and 
stewardship, climate, water stewardship, biodiversity, nature and land management, 
waste management, human rights, stakeholder relations, social performance and 
Indigenous Peoples, responsible sourcing, and political activity and spending 
practices.
Additionally, each of the Audit, Governance and Compensation Committees 
oversee key ESG matters.
The Audit Committee oversees our global compliance 
program and corporate compliance procedures and our information technology 
and cybersecurity processes and procedures.
The Governance Committee maintains our Corporate Governance Guidelines 
and oversees our corporate governance practices and procedures.
The 
Compensation Committee oversees our executive compensation program 
and human capital management policies, programs, practices and strategies, 
including those relating to workforce recruitment, retention and development, 
pay equity, and inclusion and diversity.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP
SITE GENERAL MANAGERS
FUNCTIONAL DEPARTMENT DIRECTORS
SUSTAINABILITY LEADERSHIP TEAM
GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY NETWORK
Business Unit  
Presidents
Senior Leadership 
Functional Departments
Corporate  
Responsibility 
Committee 
Governance  
Committee
Audit 
 Committee
Compensation 
Committee
OPERATIONS
CORPORATE
FCX Board members visit the Morenci open pit, Arizona.
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 28
EXECUTIVE SUSTAINABILITY LEADERSHIP 
Our CEO has ultimate responsibility for our ESG performance, with active 
oversight from the Board.
Examples of these matters include target setting and performance, external 
commitments and deliberation on ICMM Council matters, including industry-
leading commitments.
In addition, members of the SLT regularly report to 
the relevant Board committees on key environmental and social matters and 
periodically report to the full Board.
In 2023, 
ESG metrics collectively accounted for 25% of the AIP (15% safety and 10% 
sustainability), with the sustainability scorecard including performance metrics 
associated with the Copper Mark and Molybdenum Mark, climate, human rights, 
tailings management and workforce priorities.
30+45+15+10+J
2
5
%
 E
S
G
45% 
Operational
30% 
Financial
10% 
Sustainability
15% 
Safety
2023 
ANNUAL INCENTIVE 
PROGRAM
View more data in  
the ESG Performance 
Data Section
FCX Board members visit the 
Morenci operation, Arizona.
FCX is guided by its Principles of Business 
Conduct (PBC), the cornerstone of our commitment to ethical business practices.
PBC 
training is assigned to active and applicable employees.
In 2023, 99% of assigned 
employees completed comprehensive annual training on our PBC, including all 
assigned managers.
Board members sign an annual statement acknowledging their understanding of 
the expectations contained in our PBC.
By prioritizing responsible 
business practices, FCX 
demonstrates its commitment to 
making a positive impact.
Descriptions of FCX's key policies are provided below, and complete policies are available in 
local languages on our website.
Anti-Corruption
Establishes FCX's zero tolerance policy for any form of corruption, private- or 
public-sector, and prohibits facilitation payments worldwide.
Outlines procedures 
to comply with the FCPA and other relevant anti-corruption laws in all countries 
where we operate.
Business Partner Code of Conduct 
Based on our PBC, our Business Partner Code of Conduct outlines our 
expectations for our business partners and supports our commitment to only do 
business with business partners, including suppliers and contractors, who meet 
the standards we set for ethical business conduct.
The VPs 
are the guidelines for our security programs.
Inclusion & Diversity 
Outlines our commitment to fostering a culture that is safety-focused, respectful, 
inclusive and representative of the communities where we operate.
It applies to 
FCX and its affiliated political action committees.
Responsible Sourcing of Minerals 
Outlines our commitment to producing and sourcing minerals and metals 
responsibly, including respecting human rights; preventing bribery, fraud and 
corruption; and implementing the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and 
Development (OECD) Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Mineral Supply 
Chains in Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas.
Social Performance 
Recognizes the vital role of stakeholder engagement and Free, Prior and Informed 
Consent (FPIC).
Calls for collaboration with communities, including indigenous 
and vulnerable populations, to avoid, minimize, mitigate and remedy adverse 
impacts and pursue opportunities to maximize benefits.
Tailings Management 
Outlines our ongoing commitment to managing tailings responsibly, including 
protecting the health and safety of our workforce, host communities and the 
environment.
The policy affirms our goal of zero fatalities, zero catastrophic 
failures and zero unplanned discharges from any of our tailings facilities globally 
and addresses the implementation of the Global Industry Standard on Tailings 
Management for our tailings storage facilities in the Americas.
31
ANTI-CORRUPTION 
FCX seeks to only work with business partners who uphold the highest standards 
of honesty, ethics and professionalism in the conduct of their businesses.
FCX has zero tolerance for corruption of any kind.
In addition to our employees, we 
hold our business partners to this same standard.
We do not obtain any business 
advantage through bribery, improper payments, kickbacks or any other illegal 
means.
FCX's compliance program is designed to identify potential compliance 
violations before they occur and covers regulatory compliance in areas such 
as anti-corruption, sanctions and other international trade controls, conflicts of 
interest, discrimination and sexual harassment, forced labor and other subjects 
addressed in our PBC.
Our comprehensive anti-corruption infrastructure is 
designed to detect, mitigate, and remediate violations of legal and regulatory 
requirements.
Our Anti-Corruption Policy and internal guidelines require 
compliance with the FCPA and other applicable laws of the countries and 
jurisdictions where we do business.
In addition to our mandatory annual 
PBC training, we provide annual anti-corruption training for specific groups 
of employees based on their roles.
In 2023, 99% of employees selected to 
participate in the additional anti-corruption training completed the online 
course.
FCeX is a survey-based software platform designed to assess risk of our 
business partners in the areas of anti-corruption, international trade, human rights 
and responsible sourcing, and includes a number of sustainability-related questions.
FCeX enhances our ability to identify, assess and mitigate these compliance risks.
Learn more in the Responsible Value Chains section.
To encourage our workforce to report potential 
violations of business conduct, our Compliance Line permits anonymous 
reporting.
Our 
goal is to respond to grievance reports promptly and impartially.
Approximately 9% of reports received were fully or partially substantiated.
Reports are 
documented, reviewed and assigned for investigation, as appropriate.
Our global 
human rights team is engaged for human rights-related complaints.
Human rights are 
internationally recognized, defined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights 
and codified in international law.
Respect is a core value that guides how we do 
business.
As such, we aim to promote human rights through 
proactive engagement with host governments and communities and by educating 
stakeholders, including training our employees and contractors.
FCX respects internationally recognized human rights, including the rights 
under the International Bill of Human Rights, and is committed to implementing 
the UNGPs.
Our most recent UK Modern 
Slavery Act Statement is available on our website.
We do not condone any form of threats, intimidation or violence against those who 
peacefully promote and defend human rights and we expect the same from our 
business partners.
HUMAN RIGHTS SALIENCY ASSESSMENT UPDATE 
In 2023, we began updating our FCX-level human rights saliency 
assessment in order to provide a current overview of our global 
human rights risk profile.
The saliency 
assessment seeks to identify and prioritize human rights risks based 
on scope, scale, remediability and likelihood.
33
POLICIES & PROGRAMS
•	 Human Rights Policy – This policy states our commitments to the 
International Bill of Human Rights, the UNGPs and the VPs.
We mandate human rights standards through our contracts 
with business partners.
•	 Responsible Sourcing of Minerals Policy – This policy commits our business 
to identifying and mitigating human rights violations in our supply chains of 
minerals and metals for our downstream processing facilities.
•	 Human Rights Impact Assessments – HRIAs are our primary method of 
conducting human rights due diligence at our active operations.
Our PBC and other core policies ― including Anti-Corruption, Environmental, 
Inclusion and Diversity, Safety and Health, Social Performance, and Tailings 
Management ― support the application of our Human Rights Policy.
Our work in 2023 included supporting the implementation of the Tailings 
Standard, advancing our global human rights training program, reviewing our 
approach to assessing human rights risks through our sustainability risk register 
process, advancing HRIAs and as noted above, a global human rights saliency 
assessment.
CORPORATE HUMAN RIGHTS BENCHMARK
The Corporate Human Rights Benchmark ranks companies globally on their human rights performance based on publicly available information.
Visit the World Benchmarking Alliance website at worldbenchmarkingalliance.org for more information.
Human rights considerations are currently included in our annual PBC 
training, which employees are required to undertake.
In Indonesia and Peru, where both human rights and security risks are higher, we 
conduct targeted training on human rights and the VPs.
Training at these sites is 
led by dedicated site-based human rights compliance officers.
The program was designed to assist companies in Indonesia to understand and 
implement international human rights reflected in increasing legislation and 
regulatory requirements.
As part of 
its training program, PT-FI maintains a Human Rights Ambassador program designed 
to extend education and awareness of human rights to on-site contractors.
In 2023, Cerro Verde had approximately 5,000 hours of online and in-person 
training on our Human Rights Policy and the VPs.
VOLUNTARY PRINCIPLES ON SECURITY & HUMAN RIGHTS
The VPs serve as guidelines for our security and human rights programs, including 
for interactions with host government police, military personnel and private 
security contractors.
We focus our implementation primarily on Indonesia and 
Peru, which represent our higher-risk operating environments in terms of security 
and human rights.
Contracts with private 
security providers include requirements to comply with both our Human Rights 
Policy and the VPs.
We maintain support agreements with host governments that 
detail the working relationships between FCX and the public security personnel 
assigned to it.
Dedicated human rights compliance officers lead training for 
security employees, security contractors and host government security.
Refer to our annual reports to the Voluntary 
Principles Plenary on our website for more information.
We 
implement and refine our approach to human rights through ongoing stakeholder 
engagement, grievance management and the findings from our HRIAs.
These assessments involve direct input from a broad cross-section of internal 
and external rights-holders, and they support continuous improvement of our 
management systems by testing their effectiveness in identifying and addressing 
potential, actual and perceived human rights risks and impacts.
In addition to HRIAs, our responsible sourcing programs require human rights 
due diligence on suppliers of both goods and services, and minerals and metals 
for further processing.
The development of these programs is informed by our 
HRIA findings.
In 2023, we advanced our approach to assessing supplier human 
rights and other sustainability-related risks, which we discuss in more detail in the 
Responsible Value Chains section.
Relevant documents were 
reviewed, stakeholders were identified and preparations were made for the field 
assessment, which was completed in early 2024.
Taking into consideration the 
unique and complex nature of the site, the HRIA was designed to focus on  
PT-FI's business processes and systems, with the aim of improving its ability to 
effectively identify and address human rights risks and impacts.
The HRIA included 
interviews with both internal and external stakeholders to inform the process.
Through regular reviews of our engineering, procurement and construction 
(EPC) contractor and subcontractor performance, and specific programs aimed 
at advancing human rights, PT-FI has been developing this project to meet the 
commitments as defined in FCX’s Human Rights Policy.
From the start of the project through the end of December 
2023, more than 50,000 employees, contractors and security personnel received 
training on what human rights are, FCX’s Human Rights Policy, compliance, 
worker welfare principles, gender equality, cultural considerations and how to 
access available grievance mechanisms.
FCX and PT-FI strictly prohibit child labor in our 
Human Rights policy.
As a result, the EPC contractor implemented both corrective 
and preventative measures, including enhanced worker screening and bi-weekly 
meetings with PT-FI where expectations are communicated and potential issues are 
reviewed.
Findings are documented and tracked through to closure.
Additional 
safety challenges exist as illegal artisanal mining activity occurs alongside 
ongoing levee maintenance and earthworks, which are needed to responsibly 
manage the controlled riverine system.
Joint patrols, which include representatives from our workforce, local 
police and private security personnel, monitor the area occupied by panners 
and when issues are identified, such as social, environmental, safety or security 
issues, the patrols inform the cross-functional team.
To integrate illegal artisanal 
mining issues into PT-FI’s planning and decision making, the cross-functional 
team meets regularly to update leadership.
A multi-faceted approach  
including government cooperation, security risk management, stakeholder 
engagement and socioeconomic development for alternative livelihoods is essential.
We work 
to promote awareness of these mechanisms through a variety of means, 
including through posters, company webpages, stakeholder engagement 
and training.
Globally, human rights and environmental 
issues in supply chains have been receiving increasing scrutiny from consumers, 
NGOs, regulators and stakeholders.
This pressure heightens expectations and responsibility for robust due 
diligence by mineral and metal producers globally.
We 
are committed to identifying and mitigating risk in our supply chains while striving 
to meet the requirements of global markets and increasing demands from our 
customers, end users and traders who sell our products.
FCX continues to work 
diligently to advance its supply chain management by incorporating sustainability 
risks into its systems and tools for decision making and supplier management.
Our Business Partner Code of Conduct is at the foundation of our responsible 
sourcing program for all suppliers globally.
All on-site contractors are expected to abide by applicable FCX policies and site-
based procedures that apply to our own employees.
While all suppliers (goods and 
services and minerals and metals) undergo the same initial screening process, 
minerals and metals are then subject to a secondary diligence process specifically 
designed to meet the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply 
Chains of Minerals from Conflict Affected and High-Risk Areas (OECD Guidance), 
which is covered in more detail in the section on Responsible Sourcing of 
Minerals & Metals.
In 2023, we completed the development of a risk-based decision-making process 
to identify higher risk suppliers where closer collaboration is warranted.
We have integrated relevant Verisk Maplecroft 
country- and industry-level sustainability risk indices into the Ariba platform based 
on our potential supply chain risks.
In the event that we receive a high-risk alert, our responsible 
sourcing team reviews the incident for credibility and escalates, as needed.
In 2023, we worked to directly incorporate our sites into the due diligence process 
by creating a site-driven process to identify and evaluate significant suppliers.
Site-level significant suppliers are those critical to the business and/or pose 
significant ESG risk.
Each FCX operating site defines its list of significant suppliers 
based on its unique operating requirements and potential industry and location-
based risks.
In support of this work, our Global Supply Chain sustainability team 
conducts a desktop review of each significant supplier to assess their policies and 
procedures against FCX expectations, as defined in our Business Partner Code 
of Conduct.
In cases where there are gaps, the site or relevant FCX relationship-
owner works with suppliers to raise awareness of policy expectations.
The site-based identification 
process, desktop review and training will continue in 2024.
Significant supplier 
lists will be reviewed annually.
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 40
LOCAL & DIVERSE PROCUREMENT
FCX remains committed to supporting our local communities and businesses and 
recognizes the critical role they play in our daily operations.
Each mine site works with their community development managers, local 
NGOs and Indigenous partners (where applicable) to identify initiatives to enhance 
opportunities for local suppliers.
Examples of such initiatives include participating 
in supplier fairs, roundtables, chamber of commerce meetings and open house 
events and promoting our economic empowerment and small business training and 
certification programs (such as DreamBuilder and WEConnect International).
We continue to prioritize greater transparency in our local procurement 
spending, with a focus on expanding opportunities for local suppliers, where 
feasible.
In addition, 
both Cerro Verde and El Abra provide reduced payment terms for qualifying 
small- and medium-sized local businesses.
FCX has met the LPRM 
disclosure requirements, which require disclosure of local procurement spending 
by site and additional information for existing and potential suppliers, which is 
available on the Suppliers page of our website.
In 2023, we completed a project to update our records with small- 
and diverse-supplier information for our international suppliers.
Responsible Sourcing of Minerals & Metals
While all of our suppliers (goods and services and minerals and metals) undergo 
the same initial screening process, we maintain a specialized process specifically 
for suppliers of minerals and metals.
In 2023, we expanded the program to include other minerals and 
metals determined to be in scope at our Stowmarket ferromolybdenum plant.
The Board's CRC receives an annual update on our responsible sourcing of 
minerals program and at the management-level, the SLT oversees and receives 
regular updates on our performance.
Implementation 
of this procedure is supported by our Responsible Sourcing Working Group and 
dedicated committees made up of individuals from FCX’s business units and 
corporate office.
The committees meet periodically to review outcomes of the 
source review process.
Core sample from our Morenci operation, Arizona.
41
Minerals & Metals – Source Review Process 
Our minerals and metals source review process guides our analysis from  
risk identification through mitigation.
We utilize the TDi Copper Due Diligence Tool (TDi Tool), developed and 
maintained by the ICA and TDi Sustainability, a global sustainability consultancy, 
to screen the origin and transit countries of mineral and metal sources and 
determine the presence of potential CAHRA risks.
The TDi Tool rates the likelihood 
that a country meets the OECD Guidance definition of a CAHRA by assessing it 
against a set of 11 indicators related to corruption, human rights and governance 
(i.e., issues associated with the risks described in Annex II of the OECD Guidance).
The results are classified into green, orange or red flag countries as defined by 
thresholds established by TDi Sustainability.
FCX reviews these thresholds annually 
against other tools (e.g., the Responsible Minerals Initiative Country Risk Map 
and CAHRA list developed for the EU Conflict Minerals Regulation) and our own 
experiences in our compliance program, operations and supplier engagements, to 
determine if the thresholds are adequate.
If an orange or red CAHRA flag is raised in this 
step, enhanced due diligence is required.
Confirming the presence of supplier red flags for mineral and metal traders presents 
a unique challenge.
View more data in  
the ESG Performance 
Data Section
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 42
2.
When we purchase 
from traders, we work closely with the trading companies to understand their 
responsible sourcing programs and the level of due diligence that they have 
performed.
A custom, internal tool supports the rapid assessment of due 
diligence practices of smelters and refiners associated with the cathode brands in 
our supply chain.
The increase was 
primarily associated with the expansion of the program to include our Stowmarket 
ferromolybdenum plant.
Each of these flags were associated with origin or transit 
country.
No supplier red flags were identified other than those associated with 
traders, which were mitigated through our efforts to verify that the material being 
purchased was not comingled.
We maintain extensive programs to 
identify and mitigate human rights and environmental risks at both operations.
For upstream supply chain actors, this research included a review of 
external allegations and supplier policies and programs to identify and mitigate 
human rights and environmental risks.
Eleven external sources were determined to present moderate risks.
As a result, we eliminated 
these sources from our supply chain.
During this audit, the supplier did not 
provide sufficient access to the site so the source was subsequently excluded.
The enhanced due diligence 
and risk assessment for these sources is ongoing.
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING OF MINERALS COMMITTEES
ATLANTIC  
COPPER 
AMERICAS COPPER 
SMELTING,  
REFINING & ROD
CLIMAX  
MOLYBDENUM 
BUSINESS UNIT(S):
•	 Bagdad
•	 Fort Madison
•	 Sierrita
•	 Stowmarket
•	 Rotterdam
BUSINESS UNIT(S):
•	 Miami
•	 El Paso
BUSINESS UNIT(S):
•	 Atlantic Copper
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 44
Internal	
40% 
External	
60%
South America	
36%
Central America	
12% 
Southern Europe	
7%
Western Asia	
3%
North Africa	
1%
North America	
1%
36+12+7+3+1+1+J
60+40+J
COPPER 
CONCENTRATE
ORIGIN²
8+3+2+1+1+1+J
Internal	
84% 
External	
16%
South America	
9%
North America	
4%
Central America	
3% 
Eastern Europe	
<1%
Western Europe	
<1%
South-eastern Asia	
<1%
16+84+J
MOLYBDENUM
ORIGIN⁵
68+14+7+5+3+2+1+J
External	
100%
Southern Europe	
69% 
Central America	
14%
Western Europe	
7%
Northern Europe	
5%
North America	
3%
Eastern Europe	
2%
Western Asia	
<1%
100+J
RECYCLED
COPPER
ORIGIN⁴
4+3+1+J
Internal	
92% 
External	
8%
North America	
5%
South America	
3%
Central America	
<1%
8+92+J
COPPER 
CATHODE
ORIGIN³
1.
External copper concentrate was purchased only by our Atlantic Copper smelter in 2023.
External copper cathode was purchased primarily by our El Paso rod mill in 2023; a smaller amount was purchased by our Miami rod mill.
External recycled copper was purchased primarily by our Atlantic Copper smelter in 2023; a smaller amount was purchased by our Miami smelter.
Tolled unroasted molybdenum concentrates were processed at our Fort Madison, Rotterdam, and Sierrita roasting facilities; tolled roasted molybdenum concentrates were processed at our Stowmarket ferromolybdenum plant.
Tolling 
is an arrangement where materials are processed by a company on behalf of a client who retains ownership of the agreed to metals and/or volume of those materials.
We are an active member of the 
ICMM Materials Stewardship Facility and Steering Committee.
In 2023, IMOA began the data collection process to 
update existing LCAs on metallurgical molybdenum products in 2024.
In 2023, we began working with a consultant to 
conduct a carbon footprint and LCA of our molybdenum and copper products.
The LME has a publicly accessible digital 
credentials register for LME-listed producers, which FCX has leveraged.
The LME 
regularly reviews and expands the list of disclosures that can be included in 
the Passport.
In addition to a traditional focus on safety, 
we aim to support our employees with expanded mental health care benefits, 
including training front-line leaders to identify and support psychological safety.
OUR APPROACH
Safety is a core company value and is foundational to our sustainability approach.
We believe that 
health and safety considerations are integral to, and fundamental for, all other 
functions in our organization, and we understand the health and safety of our 
workforce is critical to our operational efficiency and long-term success.
Our objective is to achieve zero workplace fatalities and to decrease injuries and 
occupational illnesses.
As part of our commitment to providing a healthy and safe 
workplace, we strive to provide the training, tools and resources needed so our 
workforce can identify risks and consistently apply effective controls.
We partner with occupational medicine experts to implement comprehensive 
medical screening for employees who work with potentially hazardous substances.
We further seek to prevent fatalities 
and high-risk incidents by leveraging technology to support safe work practices in 
the field and data analytics to identify opportunities for improvement.
Where appropriate, we 
seek to collaborate with local public health officials to support community-relevant 
health education and program development activities.
Operational leadership teams at each of our sites own their safety performance and 
are supported by our corporate health and safety team.
Our corporate team communicates safety performance to executive 
management regularly, including reviews of high-risk, potential fatal and fatal 
incidents.
In 
the event of a fatality, executive management and the CRC are notified immediately 
and receive updates on the status of fatal incident investigations.
49
Policies & Programs
•	 Safety and Health Policy — States our commitments, processes and management systems to meet our health and 
safety objectives.
•	 Contractor Health, Safety and Environmental Manual — Defines the expectations and requirements for contractors 
working at our operations.
The majority 
of FCX's operations run 365 days a 
year, 24 hours a day requiring rotating 
shift schedules and, at times, business-
driven overtime.
In 2023, we continued 
implementation of our recently updated 
Working Hours and Fatigue Management 
Policy by working with site human 
resources representatives and providing 
training.
The policy outlines working hour 
limitations designed to reduce fatigue and 
promote wellness for our employees.
Fundamental to the FRM program is our effort to proactively identify 
potential fatal risks in the field and apply the controls most critical for their avoidance.
Our frontline supervisors play a vital role in the success of FRM by discussing risks with their 
teams, raising awareness of the critical controls and helping employees to eliminate distractions and 
remain focused.
In 2023, we worked to enhance our employees’ ability to identify relevant fatal risks by developing task-
based verification forms that are available in the field.
A critical control checklist is available on mobile devices to assist supervisors to identify and 
capture variances in our critical controls and provide real-time information to support faster action plans 
to address identified gaps.
Required follow-up includes a review of findings with senior management and site-level senior leadership 
who oversee and are responsible for implementing corrective actions.
We believe these events present 
the most significant opportunities to learn and 
reduce the potential for future reoccurrence.
51
PERFORMANCE
Considerable effort has been devoted to identifying hazards in the workplace, with 
the goal of mitigating them before individuals are harmed and analyzing events 
that occurred to identify missing or inadequate controls for the future.
In 2023, FCX employees and contractors worked approximately 200 
million hours and had 605 recordable injuries, compared with approximately 
153 million hours and 590 recordable injuries in 2022.
Our consolidated TRIR 
performance improved in 2023 to 0.60 on a 200,000-hour basis, and we achieved 
our 2023 target of 0.71.
The percentage of high-risk incidents (those that have the potential to result in life-
altering permanent disability or fatality) in 2023 increased by 2% from the prior year.
In 2023, 91% of incidents were classified as low- or medium-risk incidents, which 
include incidents such as fractures, sprains and lacerations.
While we are encouraged by the improvement, we remain 
steadfast in our efforts to reduce injuries and incidents.
Our risk matrix defines "high risk" events as incidents that have the potential to result in permanent disabilities or fatalities.
Reported health and safety performance is based on Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) reporting criteria.
Data include employees (full-time and part-time employees on a full-time equivalent basis) and contractors.
TRIR is equivalent to MSHA All-Incidence Rate (AIR).
In the case of a workplace fatality, we 
assist with funeral arrangements as appropriate.
In addition, senior leadership 
reviews the evaluation of each incident to determine compensation for the 
family, irrespective of liability and in addition to local requirements.
SAFETY PERFORMANCE AT THE MANYAR SMELTER PROJECT
Of the approximately 200 million hours worked by FCX employees and 
contractors in 2023, approximately 25% of them were worked at the Manyar 
smelter project.
These plans guide our operational 
approach to preparing for, responding to, and recovering from potential emergencies 
or crises.
Building from these guidelines, each site is expected to develop, document and test 
their site-specific plans.
We continued our efforts to incorporate the Tailings Standard requirements into 
our crisis management guidelines so that our crisis response plans are consistent, 
aligned and informed by stakeholders.
We met the August 2023 Tailing Standard 
conformance timeline for our Morenci TSFs, including successfully conducting a 
tabletop exercise with external emergency management agencies and community 
stakeholders.
During the year, the crisis management teams at our sites were provided updated 
pocket reference books meant to refresh team members on their expected 
assignments in the event of a crisis and to reinforce performance and training 
objectives.
EMERGENCY RESPONSE AT GRASBERG
PT-FI's Grasberg operations in Indonesia have a mature and robust crisis 
management program.
In an effort to improve our process to address 
potential future flood incidents at the milling complex, a standard operating 
procedure for flood and landslide response was developed and a joint exercise 
was held to test the established protocols.
The 
exercises included a technical rescue from a confined space, a technical 
rescue from heights, a response to a hazardous material leak and victim 
recovery and a bomb threat.
In 
2024, we plan to expand education and training related to psychological safety.
ISNetworld is an online contractor and 
supplier management platform that helps facilitate the exchange of information 
needed to manage risk, support sustainability and strengthen relationships.
Our international operations have similarly implemented contractor safety 
management tools relevant to their operations.
Each of our host communities have different community 
health profiles in terms of maturity of the healthcare system and levels and types 
of background disease.
We seek to understand these conditions and work in 
partnership with our host communities to address regional health problems.
In 2023, the fund supported 32 
projects, including 29 individual farmers and 3 farming cooperatives.
Projects supported 
through the partnership include upgraded seafood maintenance systems and 
boat docks, acquisition of generators and freezers to improve food processing and 
storage, and mobile warehouses and safety systems.
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 56
PT-FI’S COMMITMENT TO COMMUNITY HEALTH
PT-FI recognizes environmental and community health as an operational 
imperative and is dedicated to monitoring, managing and mitigating potential 
environmental and community health impacts.
57
PT-FI’s Contribution to Public Health Challenges
In response to the results of the regency-wide community health surveys, PT-FI and the LHA have agreed to collaborate on addressing public health challenges, with the 
Mimika Regency government leading the efforts.
MIMIKA LOCAL HEALTH AUTHORITY & PT-FI PUBLIC HEALTH COLLABORATION 
LHA Public Health Focus Areas
Program Objectives
PT-FI Supporting Actions
Malaria Control  
and Prevention Program
Malaria is a major health challenge in 
Mimika and efforts will support achieving 
Indonesia's 2030 National Malaria 
Elimination goals
PT-FI is working with the LHA to create a strategic plan to expand and improve the 
malaria control program offered by the Timika Malaria Control Center, which was 
established by the LHA and PT-FI’s partner organizations.
The Center sprayed 
approximately 20,000 residual houses in Timika and contributed to malaria awareness by 
engaging approximately 14,000 community members in malaria prevention education 
activities during 2023.
Maternal Health
Focused on improving nutrition and health 
access for pregnant women
PT-FI supports maternal health through collaborative efforts with community-based 
organizations and investments in integrated healthcare centers.
In addition to providing 
medical care, integrated healthcare centers provide nutrition services to expecting 
mothers and children.
In early 2024, PT-FI entered into the 
Partnership to Accelerate Stunting Reduction in Indonesia with USAID.
PT-FI will contribute 
$3.53 million from 2024 to 2026 to support efforts, particularly in the Papua region.
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 58
WORKFORCE
WHY IT MATTERS
An inclusive and diverse workforce with a broad range of experience, knowledge, 
background, culture and heritage drives innovation, enhances operational 
performance and improves relationships with stakeholders.
Mining, by its nature, 
presents challenges to cultivating and maintaining a qualified, skilled, experienced 
and diverse workforce.
A key to our success is the ability to recruit, retain, develop and 
advance talented employees with diverse perspectives.
As such, we 
are committed to fostering a company culture that is safety-focused, respectful, 
inclusive and representative of the communities where we operate.
These 
global policies are publicly available and translated into the local languages of 
the regions where we operate.
We fully expect our workforce to understand and 
comply with our trainings, policies, procedures, local cultures and laws.
PERFORMANCE
At December 31, 2023, we had approximately 27,200 employees.
As a result of 
this labor shortage, we have hired more contract workers in recent years.
LABOR RELATIONS
We continued to maintain positive and collaborative relationships with unions 
representing our employees, working cooperatively with 12 unions in 6 locations 
worldwide during 2023.
Approximately 29% of our global employee population 
is covered by collective labor agreements (CLAs).
In North America, our workforce is not covered by a CLA.
The 
Guiding Principles, which we update periodically with input from employees, 
outline clear expectations between our employees and the company, where a  
CLA does not exist.
We understand that prolonged strikes and other work stoppages can adversely 
affect our business, our workforce and regional stakeholders.
As such, we seek to 
openly engage with all of our employees directly, and, where applicable, our union 
leadership to negotiate and uphold labor agreements.
In 2023, there were no 
strikes or lockouts at any of our operations.
We prohibit compulsory and child labor and human trafficking.
We do not tolerate 
any form of harassment, discrimination, and/or bullying against individuals based 
on race, color, sex, religion, national origin, sexual orientation, gender identity or 
expression, disability, age, veteran’s status or any other characteristic protected by 
applicable law.
Our global workforce is encouraged to speak up and report issues, incidents and 
concerns if they believe they have experienced or witnessed harassment, bullying 
and/or discrimination in the workplace.
Global employees receive comprehensive training annually on our PBC, which 
incorporates the principles of the U.S. workplace discrimination laws, and on-site 
training by human resources leads.
In addition, while our unionized employees report issues, incidents and concerns 
through the process described in their CLA, our North America hourly employees 
utilize the problem-solving procedure outlined in the Guiding Principles, which 
aims to provide a fair and impartial resolution of employment-related concerns.
FCX management is briefed on the complaints and results 
of each problem-solving procedure.
48+25+23+4+J
GLOBAL WORKFORCE
(As of December 31, 2023)
North America	
48%
South America	
25% 
Indonesia	
23%
Europe/Other	
4%
EMPLOYEES
(~27,200) 65+24+8+3+J
Indonesia	
65%
North America	
24%
South America	
8%
Europe/Other	
3%
CONTRACTORS
(~85,400)
80%
60%
40%
20%
0%
EMPLOYEES UNDER COLLECTIVE 
LABOR AGREEMENTS IN 2023
47+58+65+0
29% FCX 
Global Average
Indonesia
Europe/Other
South America
North America1 
 FCX Global
1.
Data include only employees covered under CLA.
Attracting and retaining employees 
with the technical expertise required to achieve our strategic objectives and 
competing for skilled labor in the current environment are significant challenges.
In 2023, we utilized our North 
America college recruitment platform to enhance the expansion of our candidate 
pipeline and broaden our pool of diverse candidates.
Notably, more than half of applicants were from underrepresented groups, 
including women and individuals from Black, Latin and Asian communities.
We believe our frontline leaders 
are critical to employee development and retention, and our priority is to ensure 
our existing employees, especially our frontline leaders, are fully equipped to lead 
their teams to safely and responsibly deliver on our strategy now and in the future.
Our leadership competency model includes the core competencies needed for 
FCX leaders to be successful today and the skills we believe will be required in 
the future.
Training programs are intended to mature and evolve in line with our commitment 
to continuous improvement.
As part of our employee development, we conduct 
performance reviews annually to promote a culture of continuous improvement and 
professional growth.
Performance reviews are based on competencies created by 
leadership that support FCX values and behaviors that are critical to accomplish work 
in a safe and respectful manner.
We have multiple employee feedback channels, such as on-site human resource 
professionals and the Compliance Line.
Objective: To reach wider audiences, provide supplemental training and reinforce 
concepts learned during in-person classes.
Objective: To expand skills and develop interpersonal skills.
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 62
INCLUSION & DIVERSITY
As a global organization that operates in diverse parts of the world, we recognize 
the importance of inclusion and diversity as a company priority.
FCX’s Inclusion 
and Diversity Policy is applicable to our global workforce and we have a cross-
functional inclusion and diversity leadership team, which helps guide the direction 
and implementation of our programs.
Some 
of our sites have initiated efforts to improve their facilities and PPE selections 
in recent years.
Additionally, we have identified a wider selection 
of PPE to accommodate employees of different shapes, sizes and genders.
View more data in  
the ESG Performance 
Data Section
 63
DIVERSITY & LOCAL HIRING
FCX is committed to fostering a culture that is inclusive and representative of 
the communities where we operate.
The majority of our employees are from the 
countries where we operate.
Local employment directly contributes to the economic and social development of 
surrounding communities.
We 
aspire for the diversity of our workforce to reflect the diversity of the communities 
where we operate.
At our Grasberg operations in Indonesia, 97% of our employee base is Indonesian, 
including approximately 44% who are Indigenous Papuan.
We retain expatriate expertise for managerial and technical roles when we 
determine the required expertise it is not available in local communities.
NMI has engaged local vocational high schools that 
specialize in hospitality and food service to offer on-campus training programs 
for upcoming positions.
Participants at the Nemangkawi 
Mining Institute in Papua, Indonesia.
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 64
GENDER DIVERSITY
Gender diversity continues to be an important focus for FCX.
At year-end 2023, women represented 14.8% of 
our employees, up from 14.2% in 2022.
FCX’s global full-time employee turnover rate for 2023 was 10%, with women 
leaving our workforce at a slightly higher rate than men.
The objective of these apprenticeship programs is to generate 
employment opportunities for women, who lack work experience in mining, by 
teaching them specific skills that contribute to their professional development.
Our participation in Catalyst enables access to online events, 
workshops, courses and webinars for all our employees.
2023 WOMEN EMPLOYED BY FCX LOCATION (%)
United States
Europe/Other
Chile
Indonesia
Peru
14.8% FCX Global Average
25%
20%
15%
10%
5%
0
View more data in  
the ESG Performance 
Data Section
 65
FAIR & EQUAL REMUNERATION PRACTICES
We are committed to respecting the rights of our workforce, including paying fair 
and equal wages for equal work.
Our approach to compensation and benefits is 
market-based, competitive and informed by annual benchmarking and analysis.
Mercer’s evaluations include robust 
statistical analyses with detailed compensation reviews of our global employees.
In 2023, the gender pay equity gap ratio of each of base pay and total 
compensation (inclusive of base pay) was more than 0.995 (female employee) to 1 
(male employee).
In instances where it is 
justified, we implemented upward pay adjustments for individuals helping to ensure 
our employees are being treated and paid fairly.
We plan to continue to improve the 
statistical model and further strengthen the assessment moving forward.
Benchmark rates were provided for each of FCX’s 
locations globally, including operating sites, office locations, remediation and 
discontinued operations, and smaller processing locations.
Again this year, compensation for all applicable employees was 
reviewed and meets BSR's living wage benchmarks for each respective location.
In 2022, we completed a pilot living wage assessment of on-site contractors, 
with input and guidance from BSR, with a view to extending our living wage 
commitment to our on-site contractors in the future.
Moving forward, and in recognition of evolving pay landscapes, we plan 
to continue conducting evaluations of our pay equity practices and living 
wage assessments on a periodic basis and integrating key learnings into our 
compensation processes.
SUPPORTING WOMEN IN CONSTRUCTION IN GRESIK
PT-FI is focused on supporting women at its Manyar smelter project in Gresik, 
Indonesia.
In 2022, small focus groups identified opportunities to improve 
the working environment for women and action plans were developed.
PT-FI began holding regular meetings between 
management and women from the field to discuss working conditions.
During 
2023, a celebration for women in construction was held to demonstrate our 
continued commitment to supporting women in the construction field.
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 66
COMMUNITIES & INDIGENOUS PEOPLES
WHY IT MATTERS
The connection between a mining company and its host community is critical.
Creating and maintaining shared value for both the mine and the host community 
requires long-term, constructive relationships built on trust.
OUR APPROACH
FCX strives to work in partnership with our host communities and Indigenous 
Peoples to earn and maintain their trust and deliver shared value.
Proactive, ongoing engagements and constructive dialogue are foundational to 
our approach.
This is how we understand actual, potential and perceived impacts 
on our host communities, build trust, and mutually identify the most relevant 
social investments and development priorities to address our impacts and support 
enhanced resilience.
Policies & Programs
•	 Social Performance Policy — This policy outlines our commitment to 
engage and collaborate with local communities in an effort to avoid, 
minimize, mitigate and remedy adverse impacts while maximizing 
opportunities to deliver value from our presence.
We work in partnership with our host 
communities and Indigenous Peoples 
to earn and maintain their trust and to 
contribute to long-term shared value 
and resilience.
All 
of our active mining sites have long-standing local community engagement and/or development programs.
We engage with 
stakeholders through Community Partnership Panels in the U.S., community engagement dialogue in South America and 
Manyar smelter project, and Community Liaison Officers in Indonesia.
In addition, our operations frequently engage with stakeholders through situation- 
or topic-specific meetings, presentations, community affairs office hours, and other community outreach and engagement 
efforts.
Through our collaborative engagements, we identify relevant community programs and projects, some of which are 
featured in this report.
Students from the Don Bosco Technical 
School near our El Abra operation, Chile.
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 68
COMMUNITY GRIEVANCE MECHANISM
To support constructive engagement and resolution of potential issues and 
adverse impacts, we maintain a site-level grievance mechanism where community 
members, including Indigenous Peoples, can register their complaints.
Our 
community grievance mechanism serves as an early warning system by tracking 
trends and patterns in grievance types so they can be addressed in their earliest 
stages, ideally prior to escalation.
The community grievance officer works 
with relevant departments to investigate, and where appropriate, provide remedy.
This feedback is then 
incorporated into action plans to improve the mechanisms and process.
We 
continue to train our community engagement teams on the software platform and 
protocol to document and continuously improve the management process.
Both roadways are scheduled to be 
repaired in 2024.
Other includes obstruction of view, light disturbance, blight, housing and other grievances not listed above.
Grievances can relate to FCX's active mining operations, exploration 
projects, and reclaimed or remediated sites.
We are steadfast in our commitment to acknowledge, respect and engage 
collaboratively with Indigenous Peoples.
Our stakeholder engagement program includes formal interactions with 
Indigenous Peoples in Central Papua, Indonesia; Native Americans in the U.S.; and 
the traditional communities of Alto El Loa in Chile.
While their tribal government is located in Oklahoma, some of our operations are located in part of the 
Fort Sill Apache Tribe’s aboriginal homelands.
Our internal Native American Affairs team, made up of professionals with diverse tribal heritage 
or experience, provided critical guidance and leadership through this effort, and continue to do so on an ongoing basis.
This approach is driven by dedicated trust-building teams at our operations, placing the engagement strategy and execution 
in close proximity to our Indigenous neighbors.
This serves as evidence that sustained, intentional and culturally respectful engagement can 
build deeper trust and stronger relationships.
In 2023, FCX employees and contractors in roles that engage with or interact with Indigenous Peoples were provided training 
in cultural sensitivity and communicating with diverse cultures.
PT-FI conducts similar training at the Grasberg operations and the Manyar smelter project 
to promote cultural awareness with the aim of improving cross-cultural communication skills and understanding.
This commitment is reflected in 
our Social Performance Policy and Human Rights Policy available on our website.
Likewise, the Grasberg operating area in Indonesia 
is located where Indigenous Peoples of Central Papua hold customary land 
rights.
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 72
CULTURAL HERITAGE
Cultural heritage can be defined as Indigenous Peoples’ or any other population’s 
unique assets and resources, including, but not limited to tangible assets such as 
places, buildings and artifacts, or intangible assets such as practices, customs, 
religious/spiritual sites and shrines.
We recognize that respecting and supporting 
the cultural heritage of our host communities, including our Indigenous neighbors, 
is critical to our ongoing social license to operate.
We acknowledge that the nature and location of our mining and processing 
activities means we have the potential to impact cultural heritage and resources.
This promise is 
connected to our overarching commitments — such as Human Rights — and it 
manifests in the choices we make when our operations can adversely impact the 
culture of our communities and neighbors.
We voluntarily invite archaeologists to 
assess any artifacts found at our sites.
The plan explains how to handle unexpected archaeological evidence if identified 
during work or a project.
Cerro Verde’s 
publications can be found on their website.
Similarly, vegetation harvests at our Sierrita operation with the Tohono O’odham 
Nation’s San Xavier District began in 2018 as a result of direct dialogue with 
elected leaders.
At our El Abra operations, we hold in-person meetings with neighboring 
Indigenous groups to provide them with transparent information about impacts 
associated with our current and potential future operational activities.
73
Indonesia
At our Grasberg operations, PT-FI has conducted extensive participatory cultural 
heritage mapping with the Indigenous Kamoro communities adjacent to PT-
FI's lowlands operations.
More than 100 Indigenous women, men and youth 
participated in this exercise.
PT-FI works with Kamoro communities to maintain traditional transport routes 
through the Ajkwa Estuary.
The Maramowe 
Weaiku Kamorowe Foundation was awarded the Indonesian Cultural Award in 2021 
from Indonesia's Ministry of Education and Culture in recognition of its efforts to 
preserve and promote the culture of the Kamoro Indigenous Group.
Through 2023, PT-FI has supported more than 550 Kamoro carvers from 33 villages.
This 
includes creating opportunities, activities and skills that increase community-level 
capacity to maximize the economic opportunities created by mining.
75
Americas
Through our engagement and dialogue with Native American tribal 
representatives, we understand that a certificate or degree is a high priority 
for tribal members.
In partnership with Thunderbird School of Global Management at Arizona 
State University, we offer a small business development training program 
called DreamCatcher.
During 2023, 90 women participated in the program.
All program costs, including classroom instruction, lodging and meals, are free of 
charge to participants.
At El Abra, we supported the development of a training program for traditional 
educators at the Education and Training Center of the Universidad Católica del 
Norte and with the support of the Ministry of Education.
In 2023, 25 traditional educators 
from the Indigenous Development Areas of Alto El Loa and Atacama La Grande 
were certified as higher-level technicians in general education.
PT-FI and the Amungme and Kamoro Community Empowerment 
Foundation (Yayasan Pemberdayaan Masyarakat Amungme dan Kamoro, or 
YPMAK) provide education programs to create opportunities for Indigenous 
children, working alongside Mimika Regency's Education Office, educational 
organizations, education consultants and other partners.
In 2023, through YPMAK, 
more than 1,400 scholarships were being funded for students in secondary and 
tertiary level education and more than 1,700 students were being supported in the 
boarding school program.
In 2023, 85 teachers teaching in 7 districts and 28 villages 
were supported.
1
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 76
Americas
The Arizona Economic Resource Center, an entity we support and helped launch 
in 2021, has helped more than 940 organizations receive grants totaling $46 million 
from federal, state and private grant programs.
We invest in the stability of our communities by supporting substance abuse 
recovery centers in Arizona.
In 2019, we invested in the construction and launch 
of a men’s recovery home to serve Graham and Greenlee Counties.
At Cerro Verde, we support the Center for Entrepreneurship and Business 
Development (EMPRENDE) to provide no-cost business management consulting 
to entrepreneurs in the site’s direct influence area.
EMPRENDE has provided more 
than 60,000 hours of consulting services to more than 4,185 entrepreneurs.
In 2023, the fund 
was enhanced to incorporate financial training for participants, including the 
development of an investment plan.
During 2023, 26 projects benefited, delivering 
a total investment of approximately $125,000.
Indonesia
PT-FI works closely with the Mimika Regency government to support the 
development of healthcare infrastructure.
PT-FI established the Mitra Masyarakat 
Hospital in 1999 and the Waa Banti Hospital in 2005.
More than 100,000 
patients visited the Mitra Masyarakat Hospital and Mitra Masyarakat Clinic in 2023.
PT-FI and YPMAK supported the Mimika Local Health Authority during the 
construction period by providing and clearing the land on which the hospital 
was built, supplying construction equipment to the Mimika Regency government, 
transporting materials and construction workers, and providing electricity and 
clean water.
Hospital operations recommenced in 2023 with services including 
internal medicine, pharmaceutical care, obstetric care, pediatric care, pulmonary 
medicine, surgical care and emergency care.
Between September and December 
2023, the Waa Banti Hospital provided services to more than 3,000 patients.
Our work includes supporting the 
development and growth of small businesses, promoting local sourcing opportunities, enhancing basic infrastructure 
such as affordable housing, aiding local food security, and supporting widespread access to health and wellness services.
2
 77
Americas
FCX initiated the development of resilience action plans for counties surrounding 
our operations in North America.
We partner with an economic development 
consulting firm who facilitates the projects by working with a variety of 
community stakeholders.
This community-led process aims to mirror FCX’s risk 
register process, which helps stakeholders identify, prioritize, understand and 
pre-emptively mitigate potential risks to resilience specific to their local context.
Our funding will support programs that work with the 
Latinx population to increase their civic engagement.
Indonesia
PT-FI continues to collaborate with the Papuan University Cendrawasih to provide 
capacity building to the Amungme and Kamoro Indigenous Councils.
The long-term goal is to enable the Indigenous Councils to 
efficiently engage in monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness of PT-FI’s social 
investment and impact mitigation programs.
We believe inclusive and diverse communities that enable full 
and equal participation of women are stronger, more stable and resilient over the 
long term.
FCX partners with WEConnect International and Vital Voices to support women's 
empowerment and leadership.
Through membership and partnership with 
WEConnect International, FCX has helped enable women business owners 
to compete for a greater share of private sector sourcing contracts, including 
identifying opportunities for women to participate in our own supply chain.
Due to a variety of factors (e.g., cost/benefit, partner 
capacity), in 2023, we evaluated the impacts associated with 47 programs or 
approximately $5 million of funding out of total funding in North America.
ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTIONS & CASH PAYMENTS TO GOVERNMENTS
In 2023, FCX’s direct economic contributions totaled $18.9 billion, which  
includes $11.2 billion in payments to suppliers; $2.8 billion in employee wages 
and benefits; $2.2 billion in payments to providers of capital; $2.6 billion in 
payments to governments (consisting of income taxes (net of refunds), royalties 
and net severance taxes, export duties, net profit taxes and withholding taxes 
on foreign dividends); and $187 million in voluntary community investments.
In reference to the GRI Standards, financial 
information has been reported for all tax jurisdictions where FCX’s entities reside 
for tax purposes.
FCX’s global tax strategy seeks to balance the economic considerations of 
our host governments and stakeholders with our business objectives.
In 
jurisdictions where we conduct business, we advocate for the development and 
implementation of fair and predictable tax laws on issues that are important to our 
business and the industry.
The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) is 
a global standard to promote transparent and accountable management of natural 
resources.
We maintain significant mining operations in Indonesia and Peru, both of which 
have implemented EITI, and we actively support and participate in associated 
in-country processes as part of EITI.
In addition to our country-level EITI 
commitments and regulatory reporting obligations, our practice is to provide 
transparency by voluntarily reporting cash payments to governments in all 
significant jurisdictions where we conduct business.
Tax risks are identified 
and monitored by a global team of tax professionals, who assist in executing 
our tax affairs in line with our strategy, PBC and internal control policies.
We are 
committed to fully cooperating with all tax authorities and providing access to 
accounting and governance documentation as requested.
We fund our social 
investment programs directly through each operation and their respective 
foundation or community trust fund.
In 2023, we invested $187 
million, which was below our target of $203 million.
SDG 12 — Responsible Consumption and 
Production — is central to our strategy of being foremost in the global 
copper industry.
We are committed to conducting our work in a manner that minimizes adverse 
impacts on the environment and supports protection of the natural environment 
and ecosystems through responsible environmental stewardship, strong 
management systems and continuous improvement.
Our Environmental Policy serves 
as the foundation for our protection of the natural environment in the regions 
where we live and work.
During the year, we 
advanced our climate strategy with the announcement of significant investments 
to further advance our GHG reduction goals.
Mining is energy intensive and generates significant GHG emissions that 
contribute to climate change.
It is a central component in the technologies that will be 
deployed in a highly electrified and low-carbon economy, including solar and 
wind energy and electric vehicles.
We are dedicated to supplying the global economy 
with responsibly produced copper which includes operating in a manner that 
manages and mitigates our GHG emissions and other climate-related risks 
and impacts.
REDUCTION 
We strive to reduce, manage and mitigate our GHG emissions where 
possible.
RESILIENCE 
We strive to enhance our resilience to climate change risks (both physical 
and transitional risks) for our current and future operations, our host 
communities and our stakeholders.
This includes collaborating with 
partners in our value chain and industry associations to identify climate-
related solutions that will support the transition to a low-carbon economy 
and ultimately meet the goals of the Paris Agreement.
*This is a high-level, illustrative net zero pathway covering only Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions.
We continue to make meaningful progress in our efforts to decarbonize our 
electricity supply.
In 2023, PT-FI continued advancing plans to transition its existing 
energy source from coal to LNG.
We continue to advance our “Copper Skies” initiative, which is focused on 
increasing renewable energy power for our Americas operations.
Due to favorable market 
conditions, we have contracted to obtain 100% of El Abra’s electricity demand 
from renewable sources for 2023.
In North America, we are working to progress efforts to integrate up to 450MW 
of solar and wind sources into our power supply.
In early 2024, we added a solar 
power agreement which is expected to provide more than 41,000 MWh to our Miami 
operations in Arizona.
Our focus 
on responsibly transitioning our energy supply is part of our broader effort to further 
refine our decarbonization roadmap to achieve our goals — today and for the future.
89+7+3+1+J
Copper Mining	
89%
Smelting & Refining	
7% 
Molybdenum Mining	
3%
Other	
1%
2023
GHG EMISSIONS
BY BUSINESS AREA2
(%)
43+29+9+12+6+1+J
Natural Gas	
43%
Hydro	
29%
Coal, Other Fossil Fuels	
9%
Solar, Wind, Geothermal,  
Biomass	
12%
Nuclear	
6%
Other	
1%
2023
PURCHASED POWER
BY SOURCE
(%)
36+19+45+J
Scope 1	
36%
Scope 2	
19%
Scope 3	
45%
2023
GHG EMISSIONS
BY TYPE1
(%)
View more data in 
the ESG Performance 
Data Section
1.
Our calculation of Scope 3 emissions increased by 9% compared to data reported in the 2022 Climate Report due to methodological improvements in calculations for fuel life 
cycle emissions and Category 1-2 emissions associated with construction of the Manyar smelter project and the expansion of PT Smelting.
Reflects Scope 1 and 2 emissions only.
87
GHG REDUCTION TARGET PERFORMANCE 
In 2023, our global absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions increased slightly 
by 1.0%, while production decreased by 0.4%.
Due to these small changes our 
total global absolute Scope 1 and 2 (market-based) emissions remained stable at 
approximately 7.8 million metric tons.
This remains approximately 5% lower than 
our 2018 baseline total emissions, continuing to reflect significant improvements in 
energy efficiency and grid and energy decarbonization in recent years.
In 2023, our Americas Copper GHG emissions intensity increased by 4.0% 
compared to the prior year; with intensity increasing to 1.4% higher than the 2018 
baseline.
The 
commissioning of the dual fuel power plant helped to reduce the carbon intensity 
of the electricity produced at the site while production remained strong.
In the coming years, we expect this performance to vary due to changes in ore 
composition and related processing requirements, which can impact emissions 
intensity performance.
In 2023, Atlantic Copper resumed normal operations after a 78-day planned 
maintenance shutdown in 2022.
Intensity reduction targets (CO₂e metric tons / metric ton copper) include total (Scope 1 and 2) emissions and do not include by-products in the denominator.
PT-FI Grasberg's intensity reduction target is based on payable copper produced in concentrate.
Completion of the PTS expansion and Manyar smelter project is currently anticipated to occur in mid-2024 with ramp-up completion scheduled through the end of 2024.
Absolute targets include total (Scope 1 and 2) emissions.
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 88
OUR PATHWAY TO LOWER EMISSION HAULAGE
Our current fleet of haul trucks accounts for approximately 75% of our annual 
diesel fuel consumption.
In 2023, we continued to collaborate with 
Caterpillar’s Early Learner program and Komatsu’s GHG Alliance, both of which 
are focused on the development and advancement of zero-emissions mining 
trucks and supporting technologies and infrastructure.
We have been trialing both 
Komatsu and Caterpillar hybrid drive ultra-class haul trucks at Cerro Verde.
These 
diesel-electric trucks provide a more flexible platform for the future as we evaluate 
and consider enabling technologies, such as trolley assist systems.
Haul Truck at our Cerro 
Verde opertion, Peru.
89
ADVANCING OUR SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS INITIATIVES 
Scope 3 emissions occur both upstream and downstream of our operations.
Downstream emissions result from 
transport, further refining or transforming of our copper into useable products.
For some metals other than copper, 
Scope 3 emissions can be multiple times their combined Scope 1 and 2 emissions.
Our estimated 2023 Scope 3 emissions represented approximately 45% of our 
total Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions.
Because Scope 3 emissions are generated by other parties (i.e., they are other 
companies’ Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions), they are more difficult to estimate 
accurately.
ESTABLISHING A SECTORAL DECARBONIZATION APPROACH
We are currently working with the Copper Mark and copper industry peers 
to establish an SDA for the copper sector in alignment with the SBTi.
Phase 1 of this project 
was completed in early 2024, with the project continuing into 2025.
As previously disclosed, we are committed to validating our 2030 GHG targets 
with the SBTi.
OUR APPROACH 
Water is essential to our work and vital to the long-term sustainability of the company and our host communities.
On the supply side, we seek to identify opportunities to shift to more sustainable 
water sources, such as recycled, reused, renewable and lower-quality water.
We review our water usage and consumption 
patterns regularly in order to understand our water balances, as discussed on page 91, and identify efficiency 
opportunities.
With this information, we can identify opportunities to minimize water loss, 
optimize recycling and reuse, and maintain compliance with quality standards.
The plans outline the site-specific water management 
objectives and the models estimate the outcomes of future scenarios.
In 2023, updates were 
completed at Morenci and Cerro Verde.
In 2024, we plan to complete the 
updates for Bagdad, Chino, Colorado and Sierrita.
FCX currently has an estimated 38 
billion pounds of copper in our active leach stockpiles that has not been 
accounted for in our traditional leaching approach.
assessment should include water consumption, quality, efficiency and off-site water 
conservation programs.
We expect to complete the water stewardship plans for Cerro Verde and El Abra by 
the end of 2024.
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 94
Understanding Our Water Supply Risks 
Based on a combination of resources from the World Resources Institute (WRI), 
our own qualitative assessments and our local knowledge of site-specific 
circumstances, the table below illustrates the water risks associated with each 
of our operating sites.
The number of water risk regions with poor water quality 
or scarce supply is increasing globally, and as a result, competition for water 
is expected to increase.
Our water supply risk assessment is an iterative process that we aim to update 
periodically.
Risk considerations include water sources, water quality, baseline 
water stress, excess water, litigation, reputational risks and access challenges —  
and in due course, the potential long-term impacts associated with climate 
change.
Climate conditions based on the Köppen-Geiger climate classification terminology.
FCX determines baseline water stress ratings by referencing the World Resources Institute’s Aqueduct tool's baseline water stress classifications where our operations are located and considering site-specific circumstances of 
withdrawal at each operation, including the location of available water sources.
This risk is mitigated through water management plans, including water balance 
forecasting, diversions, enhanced evaporation and water treatment.
Significant growth, overallocation and 
declining climate conditions have resulted in water shortages and stress 
that impact Colorado River water users.
The 
stored water is regulated by the Arizona Department of Water Resources.
For 
each acre-foot of water stored, FCX acquires a long-term storage credit (LTSC), 
which can be accessed at any time in the future.
In times of water shortage, 
FCX has agreements in place to transfer its LTSCs to local communities, 
allowing them to access the stored water in exchange for their rights to other 
water sources, such as the Black River (a tributary to the Salt River).
FCX participated in the coalition contributing 
a block of its own water for savings in Lake Mead.
We are focused on diversifying our water sources — 
reducing our dependence on traditional freshwater sources and transitioning to 
nontraditional or alternative sources, such as municipal wastewater (effluent) or 
seawater.
Similarly, in Chile, the El Abra mine is located in an arid region with extremely high 
water risk.
At sites with surplus water, we are evaluating opportunities for additional water 
storage to capture high flow storm events for carry over into dry seasons.
Carey School of Business, James, T., Evans, A., Madly, E., & Kelly, C. (2014 December 18).
The Economic Importance of the Colorado River to the Basin Region.
This includes the health, safety and production risks of 
heavy rains, arid environments or heat-related occupational illness.
Company-wide processes to address risks, including climate, seek to cover the 
full life cycle of our assets — from a pre-project sustainability review process to 
resiliency planning for reclamation and closure.
We expect to implement these enhancements at select sites 
in 2024.
In 2022, analysis by DHI Group (DHI) — a global water management consultancy 
firm — determined that there is negligible credible risk of coastal flooding at the 
Atlantic Copper site through 2050 and critical infrastructure is adequately raised 
above all credible coastal flood levels at the Manyar smelter project through 
2050.
In 2022 and early 2023, DHI undertook a detailed evaluation of the potential 
for coastal flooding at FCX’s Amamapare port on the southern coast of Central 
Papua, Indonesia.
This commitment 
is embedded in our management systems, policies and approach to continuous 
improvement.
The impacts of climate change, such as prolonged droughts, 
wildfires and sea level rise, are having a significant impact on biodiversity globally.
OUR APPROACH 
Our Environmental Policy states our commitment to contribute to the 
conservation of nature and biodiversity, implement the mitigation hierarchy to 
assess risks and impacts to nature, and commit not to explore or mine at any 
UNESCO World Heritage Sites.
As part of our mining and processing activities, we are responsible for 
management of our land and the associated biodiversity.
This includes effectively identifying and 
managing biodiversity-related risks.
We implement habitat restoration and conservation work through partners such as 
The Nature Conservancy and Trout Unlimited.
We seek to engage our employees, local communities and 
other interested stakeholders in conservation work.
OFFSET
RESTORE/REHABILITATE
MINIMIZE
AVOID
NO NET LOSS
MITIGATION HIERARCHY
 99
Biodiversity Management Plans 
We implement a variety of programs and strategies at our operations that seek to 
proactively identify and mitigate biodiversity risks while promoting conservation 
opportunities in collaboration with government agencies and other voluntary 
opportunities.
All of our North American sites implement Wildlife Protection Plans.
These plans are based on adaptive management principles to effectively address 
biodiversity risks resulting from operational and ecological changes at the sites.
In 2022, 
PT-FI conducted a workshop to update the plan for 2023 through 2027.
Through the workshop, it was affirmed that PT-FI is meeting its 
commitments and incorporates the key tenets of the national-level Indonesian 
Biodiversity Strategic Action Plan.
In early 2024, we published a standalone summary of biodiversity management 
at FCX which details our corporate policies, programs and tools for identifying, 
evaluating and mitigating risks to biodiversity, and includes site-level biodiversity 
management plans for Cerro Verde, El Abra, Morenci and PT-FI (Grasberg 
operations).
In early 2024, we published detailed  
site-level biodiversity management plans  
for Cerro Verde, El Abra, Morenci and  
PT-FI Grasberg.
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 100
FCX SITES RECOGNIZED FOR BIODIVERSITY EFFORTS 
FCX actively participates in the Conservation Certification program of the WHC, 
which formally recognizes meaningful biodiversity conservation, environmental 
education and community outreach programs.
FCX has 17 certified programs 
through the WHC globally, including 14 North America sites, both of our South 
America sites and Grasberg in Indonesia.
In 2023, 
Climax, Chino, United Verde, Cerro Verde and PT-FI were recertified through WHC.
•	 FCX received the WHC's 2023 Corporate Conservation Leadership Award, 
presented annually to a single company to recognize its achievement in 
conservation efforts.
Additionally, Tohono, Port Nickel and Tyrone were 
recognized for their specific biodiversity projects.
•	 Tohono’s management of a decant line at the long-closed mine on the 
Tohono O’odham Nation in Arizona to benefit the California Leaf-Nosed Bat 
received the Bat Project Award.
High school students assist in planting native wetland 
species and learn how to identify invasive species as part of the project.
The PT-FI 
Grasberg operational area is adjacent to the Lorentz National Park, the largest 
protected area in Southeast Asia and the only protected area in the world that 
incorporates continuous intact tracts of ecosystems from alpine to tropical marine 
environments, including extensive lowland wetlands.
In 1999, Lorentz National 
Park was declared a World Heritage Site by the UNESCO.
Conserving and protecting Papua’s biodiversity and ecosystems is a high priority 
for both PT-FI and FCX.
PT-FI seeks to establish strong partnerships with multiple stakeholder 
groups involved in conservation and natural resource management, including 
governments, NGOs, universities, research organizations and citizens.
MP 
21 is the site of pilot plantations, wildlife conservation initiatives, and research and 
educational programming.
In 2023, PT-FI planted more than 150 plant species for testing, including legume 
cover crops for livestock feed; endemic trees such as casuarinas, matoa, 
ironwoods, callophylums and eucalyptus; plantation trees such as coconut, cacao, 
coffee and jackfruit; agricultural crops such as pineapples, melons, sugar cane, 
sago and bananas; and vegetables and grains such as chili peppers, tomatoes, 
cucumbers, rice, maize, beans and squash.
Additionally, PT-FI is conducting an ecological risk assessment at its Grasberg 
operations to evaluate aquatic and terrestrial wildlife risks potentially associated 
with its mine operations, which is expected to be completed in 2025.
From the start of the program to the end of 2023, PT-FI has 
assisted in releasing approximately 55,000 endemic animals, including more than 
50,000 pig-nosed turtles.
Finally, education and outreach are major focuses of PT-FI’s biodiversity efforts.
101
In 2023, PT-FI was recognized by 
the Ministry of Environment and 
Forestry for its efforts to save 
tens of thousands of animals.
Tailings are the finely 
ground natural rock particles or by-products that remain after the economically 
valuable minerals have been processed and extracted from the mined ore. Tailings 
are transported from processing facilities to depositional management and/or 
storage facilities.
OUR APPROACH 
The health and safety of our workforce and host communities, and the protection 
of the environment are fundamental to our extensive tailings management 
programs and approach.
Our objective is to have zero fatalities, zero catastrophic 
failures and zero unplanned discharges from any of our tailings facilities.
Through our Americas' tailings management system, we systematically seek 
to identify and analyze, then eliminate or mitigate failure modes in an effort to 
minimize the risk of failure scenarios associated with our TSFs.
FCX subsidiaries in the Americas currently operate 15 active TSFs, including 13 
in the U.S. and 2 in Peru.
TAILINGS STORAGE FACILITIES BY DESIGN & STATUS¹
UPSTREAM
CENTERLINE
DOWNSTREAM
Active
10
5
0
Inactive or Closed
31
2
2
Safely Closed2
19
3
0
Total Tailings Storage Facilities
60
10
2
1.
Safely Closed is defined by the Tailings Standard and requires confirmation by an external independent 
reviewer and an internal Accountable Executive (AE).
At our Grasberg operations in Indonesia, PT-FI operates 
a controlled riverine tailings management system which is not represented in the table above.
For closed and inactive sites, we have a similar oversight structure that reports through our Chief Sustainability Officer and 
includes the same roles for site-level engineers, engineers of record (EoR), tailings stewardship teams (TST) and Independent Tailings Review Board (ITRB) or senior 
independent technical reviewer.
SITE-LEVEL IMPLEMENTATION
•	 Site Tailings Management, 
Engineers and Operators: Internal 
team that implements the tailings 
management program and 
regularly monitors, identifies and 
addresses potential risks.
FUNCTIONAL ACCOUNTABILITY  
AND RESPONSIBILITIES
•	 Accountable Executive (AE): 
Chief Operating Officer who 
reports directly to the CEO and 
is accountable for the safe and 
responsible management of TSFs.
•	
Tailings and Water Director: 
Oversees RTFE activities; engages 
with and reviews the site-level 
implementation of tailings 
management system activities.
•	
Tailings Management System 
Implementation Assessment 
Consultant: An external assessor 
engaged to review the efficacy of 
the tailings management system 
as applied at a site-specific level 
to support proper management 
and operation of the TSFs.
BOARD AND EXECUTIVE 
LEADERSHIP OVERSIGHT
•	 Corporate Senior Leadership: 
Executive leadership that 
participates in major decisions 
related to the tailings 
management program, including 
allocation of resources for TSF-
related operations, initiatives and 
projects.
•	 Board of Directors: The Board’s 
CRC is responsible for the 
oversight of FCX’s tailings 
management program and 
receives regular updates from 
the AE.
As an ICMM 
member and in accordance with our commitment in our Tailings Management 
Policy, FCX implemented the Tailings Standard for all TSFs with “extreme” or “very 
high” potential consequences based on credible failure modes by August 2023 
and is committed to implementing the Tailings Standard by August 2025 for all 
other TSFs with other consequence classifications that have not been deemed as 
Safely Closed each as defined in the Tailings Standard.
In 2023, FCX continued to advance conformance with the Tailings Standard for our 
Americas operating TSFs, including achieving conformance of all TSFs at Morenci 
by August 2023 (deadline for “extreme” or “very high” consequence classifications).
Additionally, we achieved conformance of the TSF at Henderson ahead of the 
deadline for TSFs with other consequence classifications.
In accordance with the 
Tailings Standard, FCX has determined an updated classification for each of our 
active and some inactive facilities (remaining sites in progress), which is available 
on our website.
SAFE CLOSURE DESIGNATION 
As part of our Tailings Standard conformance, we have been reviewing our 
closed TSFs to determine which are ready to be deemed Safely Closed, 
as defined by the Tailings Standard.
For a TSF to be designated as Safely 
Closed, FCX conducts an internal review, including detailed technical 
evaluations and risk assessments.
As of January 31, 
2024, we had achieved the Safely Closed designation for 22 TSFs in the U.S.
A range of research and development 
activities will be undertaken by the GSTC, including laboratory testing, field 
trials and data analysis.
FCX plans to complete 
laboratory testing and initiate field-scale GSTC tailings test pads at our Sierrita 
operations in 2024.
Tailings storage facility at our 
Sierrita operation, Arizona.
PT-FI operates a controlled riverine tailings 
management system, which was implemented based on methods approved and 
permitted by the Indonesia government.
The ModADA is the 
terrestrial portion of the tailings management deposition area covering an area 
of approximately 230 square kilometers.
Below the ModADA to the south is the 
estuary area encompassing approximately 220 square kilometers.
Quantities of finer 
tailings and other sediments deposit in the estuary and the sea to the south.
GOVERNANCE – INDONESIA 
PT-FI implements comprehensive and robust governance and oversight 
processes for its tailings management system.
•	 FCX Corporate Tailings and Water Team — Technical resources that 
provide support and assist with guidance and direction for our site tailings 
team and associated program initiatives.
•	 Site Tailings Management, Engineers and Operators — Internal 
team that implements the program and regularly monitors, identifies and 
addresses potential risks associated with the ModADA and coastal zone.
•	 ModADA Management Board — Multi-disciplinary expert panel that 
convenes yearly to provide oversight and recommendations to PT-FI 
leadership and engineering teams on priority activities including safety, 
risks associated with the ModADA and coastal zone, the structural 
integrity of the levees, geochemical stability of the deposited sediments, 
environmental considerations and stakeholder engagement.
107
EFFECTIVELY MANAGING TAILINGS GEOCHEMISTRY 
Tailings from Grasberg are specifically managed to be geochemically benign, 
helping to ensure safety for the environment.
PT-FI analyzes the tailings samples to understand their acid production 
and neutralization potential in addition to their metal content and particle size.
The information from this sampling program informs the mill operators about 
the expected behavior of the tailings with respect to potential acid generation, 
and if any adjustments to mill feed should be made such as the addition of 
limestone.
This process forms the basis of the mill’s ability to confirm and maintain 
production of geochemically-neutral tailings to be deposited in the ModADA.
If the measured ratio is not at the desired level, 
PT-FI can blend the material with higher neutralizing material until it reaches the 
desired level.
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 108
PT-FI ENVIRONMENTAL AND TAILINGS MONITORING PROGRAM
PT-FI commits significant resources to environmental management and 
monitoring measures to manage tailings safely.
A multi-disciplinary, multi-
department team routinely monitors surface and groundwater quality, air quality, 
hydrological characteristics, sediment quality, meteorological patterns and 
ecological characteristics of the entire operations area.
TEL is registered with the Indonesia Ministry of Environment 
and Forestry (MoEF) as a Referenced Environmental Laboratory.
The most recent 
audit was completed in early 2023.
The Tailings Management Roadmap Update
During 2023, PT-FI continued working with Indonesia’s MoEF on the Tailings 
Management Roadmap, a process that was agreed to and established with 
the MoEF in December 2018 to support continuous improvement of PT-FI’s 
environmental and tailings management practices.
To date, PT-FI has complied with the Tailings Management Roadmap for the 2019 
to 2024 period.
In 2023, PT-FI continued to work with MoEF on developing projects 
that represent incremental improvements to the performance of the tailings 
management system, in both the terrestrial and estuary portions of the tailings 
management area.
Natural growth of the island and associated growth of mangrove 
forests has been observed through a series of satellite images.
In 2022, UNIPA researchers 
identified 1,089 plant species growing naturally on tailings compared to the 504 
species identified in the same area in 2005.
A baseline study was completed by 
UNIPA in 2023 to evaluate agricultural productivity and feasibility of cultivating 
plants for economic benefit on fresh tailings.
Results from that study are being 
incorporated into a long-term comprehensive UNIPA/PT-FI Integrated Land 
Farming study.
The Integrated Land Farm will incorporate agriculture, animal 
husbandry and a freshwater fishery to create a single farming system on tailings 
with zero waste.
The study is expected to begin in late 2024.
Responsible 
waste management is critical to complying with environmental regulations, 
maintaining community and environmental health, and advancing social 
acceptance of mining operations.
In 2023, we generated 341 million metric tons of tailings, 408 million 
metric tons of waste rock and overburden and 0.7 million metric tons of 
slag.
The volume of mining and mineral processing waste we generate 
varies depending on site-specific mine plans.
These materials are typically 
managed in designated, engineered stockpiles or impoundments.
Details 
about how our mining and mineral processing wastes are managed can be 
found in the Tailings Management section.
PROJECT CIRCULAR – INCREASING E-WASTE RECYCLING CAPACITY
Our Atlantic Copper smelter in Huelva, Spain, is a custom smelter which 
receives concentrates from all over the world.
Through Project CirCular, Atlantic Copper is developing capacity to 
recycle end of life e-waste into its existing smelting and refining facilities.
The project, which is expected to begin operation in 2025, includes the 
addition of a smelting furnace and associated equipment to recover 
copper, gold, silver, palladium, tin, nickel and platinum from e-waste.
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 112
MINE CLOSURE & RECLAMATION
WHY IT MATTERS 
Mining requires infrastructure projects that alter the natural environment, such as 
open-pit mines, roads and processing facilities.
OUR APPROACH 
FCX understands that effectively reclaiming disturbed land and responsibly 
planning for closure of our mining and processing sites is critical to maintaining 
the trust of our local communities, governments, and other interested 
stakeholders, and as such, reclamation and mine closure processes are integral to 
our site planning and ongoing operations.
Our philosophy of responsible production continues when we close 
our mining and processing sites through to reclamation.
At each of 
our operations, we have mine closure and reclamation plans with site-specific 
environmental measures designed to minimize long-term impacts, promote 
ecosystem reestablishment and protect the watersheds where we operate.
To 
support future anticipated closure and reclamation costs, each operating mine 
site has asset retirement obligations aligned with approved closure plans.
Asset 
retirement obligations are estimated and accounted for in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the U.S. and are audited by 
an independent accounting firm.
While opportunities for concurrent reclamation are limited, we plan 
for, continually evaluate and carry out concurrent reclamation when possible.
By the end of 2024, we plan to have dedicated an area of 
land to test our site-specific reclamation programs at each of our North America 
operating mining sites and at Cerro Verde.
We have final reclamation plots 
constructed in the highlands at Grasberg in addition to a number of large-scale 
reclamation areas in the lowlands.
113
In Colorado, we continue to work with Trout Unlimited and the Division of 
Reclamation, Mining and Safety (DRMS) in a multi-year partnership focused on 
supporting clean watersheds.
The partnership has been integral to the successful design and implementation of 
reclamation activities at the site.
MAN IN THE MAZE PROJECT
FCX recognizes the impact of its historic operations and works to reclaim and 
restore areas associated with those legacy operations.
In 2016, we enrolled 
80 acres associated with the former Eagle Picher Mill site into the Arizona 
Department of Environmental Quality’s Voluntary Remediation Program.
OUR APPROACH 
Our active mining and mineral processing operations and technology centers 
maintain environmental management systems (EMS) that are certified to the ISO 
14001:2015 standard by independent auditors.
As part of our EMS, our workforce is 
trained on site-specific subject areas and annually on environmental issues and is 
supported by environmental professionals working in the field.
Critical 
controls are focused on the elimination of unplanned releases and prevention or 
minimization of impacts to water and other natural resources.
At the corporate level, subject matter experts train, develop and support our site 
teams, routinely conduct site visits, and in some cases, directly manage a group of 
site-based experts.
To support this effort, we provide annual training for our employees on critical 
environmental compliance topics, including air, water, waste and biodiversity.
In 
2023, we held in-person training sessions and conducted approximately 5,000 
hours of training.
Additionally, we continued to train our global teams on how to 
track environmental incidents in our recently adopted company-wide digital incident 
management system.
During 
each interim year, surveillance audits are conducted by external audit teams.
In addition, in 2023, our mining 
sites were inspected by governmental regulatory agencies 92 times, resulting in 2 
Notice of Violations (NOV) that were subsequently addressed.
The most 
recent audit was completed in early 2023.
The robust nature of our internal audits and regulatory inspections are part of 
the strength of our systems and our commitment to maintain compliance.
We 
integrate the findings from both internal and external audits into our corrective 
and preventative action plans at all of our sites.
These actions are reviewed 
by corporate subject matter experts to ensure such measures are robust and 
institutionalized for the future.
In 2023, we experienced an increase in reportable spills or releases.
The increase 
was due in large part to a number of smaller spill events related to issues such 
as power or equipment failure, operator error or weather-related events.
At El Abra, a valve failure in a pumping station allowed 
approximately 1,000 cubic meters of an acidic solution to flow from a secondary 
containment to a downstream area where it was controlled in stormwater 
sedimentation ponds located in the bottom of a creek upstream of the Conchi 
Viejo village.
The site activated its contingency plan and immediately implemented 
corrective actions to stop the flow and clean up the impacted area.
Our 
monitoring indicates that groundwater quality was not affected by this incident.
After identifying the 
issue, a pump operator stopped pumping and activated the contingency plan.
We did not incur any environmental penalties over $100,000 on an individual 
basis during the year.
Fines levied in 2023 were associated with NOVs related 
to soil monitoring and reporting at Cerro Verde, water monitoring and reporting 
programs at El Abra and wastewater discharge permit violations at the El Paso 
refinery and rod mill.
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
Reportable Spills or Releases of Hazardous or Toxic Chemicals1
33
19
20
16
34
NOVs2 (related to permit exceedances, spills, releases or other 
compliance matters)
5
6
9
12
16
Number of Significant Environmental Events³
0
0
0
1
2
Environmental Penalties Paid4
$124,682
$67,100
$18,951
$24,301
$10,831
1.
Reported figures are those reported to a national agency.
Spills associated with pipeline sabotage at PT-FI's Grasberg operations are not reflected in this table.
When NOVs are rescinded based on the legal appeals process, prior year data are updated.
Significant environmental events are defined as those with a rating of 3 or 
higher on the consequence scale.
Fines paid during 2023 were associated with NOVs related to soil monitoring and reporting at Cerro Verde ($4,763), water monitoring and reporting programs at El Abra ($5,668), and wastewater discharge permit violations at the El 
Paso refinery and rod mill ($400).
