Our sustainable development 
programs facilitate our ability to deliver on 
this ambition.
Our 
sustainability performance is critical to 
meeting society’s responsible sourcing 
objectives so that we can place our products, 
which power societal advancement, into the 
global marketplace today and into the future.
To supply essential metals to current and future generations, 
we are guided by our stated business objectives, principles and 
policies, and we work continuously to improve our systems.
Our sustainable 
development programs facilitate 
our ability to deliver on this 
ambition.
Supporting this framework are internal governance 
and management systems that detail how we operate.
The Board 
oversees the strategic direction of the company and, in doing 
so, considers the potential rewards and risks of our business 
opportunities and challenges and monitors the development 
and management of risks that impact our strategic goals.
The Corporate Responsibility 
Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight 
responsibilities with respect to the management of risks 
associated with our safety and health policies and programs, 
environmental policy and programs, human rights policy and 
practices, community and public health programs, community 
policy and practices, governmental and stakeholder relations, 
sustainable development programs, programs to evaluate and 
address climate-related impacts and opportunities, charitable 
contributions, and political activity and spending practices.
The Grasberg Block Cave will anchor the world’s largest underground copper mining complex.
8
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT LEADERSHIP TEAM 
Our company’s Sustainable Development Leadership Team 
considers both imminent matters and emerging trends 
while providing strategic guidance for our programs.
The 
team is sponsored by our Senior Vice President and Chief 
Administrative Officer and is led by our Vice President-
Environmental Services and Sustainable Development.
The team solicits 
input from internal and external subject matter experts.
Capacity building through engagement is critical to assisting 
communities to be resilient to downturns in commodity cycles 
and in planning for eventual closure of our operations.
In 
addition, our operational-level teams regularly engage locally 
with community stakeholders, development institutions and 
civil society organizations.
We are committed to engaging on specific measures associated 
with our tailings management and stewardship program.
Above, participants examine air filter data after 24 hours of monitoring.
As a result, we are enhancing our supply chain due diligence 
while continuing to implement increasingly advanced 
performance standards for mining and refining.
The team is led by our Vice President-Environmental Services 
and Sustainable Development and our Director-Product 
Stewardship with active participation by our global product 
sales, legal and business unit technical teams.
the 
European Union’s Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation 
and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) program, U.S.
Toxic 
Substances Control Act, and developing programs such as 
Korea REACH) 
Moving forward, we will focus on advancing its product 
stewardship strategy by continuing to map its value chains – from 
raw material sources to end users – continuing to collaborate with 
key stakeholders and industry associations to advance responsible 
production and consumption and work closely with customers to 
understand their evolving requirements.
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT RISK REGISTER 
The Freeport-McMoRan Sustainable Development framework 
is based on operation-specific factors and influences, including 
regional context, type and stage of operation and social setting.
This update is in part 
intended to reflect due diligence priorities of actors in the 
metals value chain, including members of the Responsible 
Minerals Initiative.
Sustainability Focus Areas identified through this process 
are annually reviewed by our Sustainable Development 
Leadership Team and communicated to our Board.
On January 9, 2018, the Climax mine celebrated the production of its 2 billionth pound of 
molybdenum, the same year Climax Molybdenum Company celebrated its 100th anniversary.
Molybdenum improves the strength of low alloy steel, making the element ideal for lightweight 
applications such as fuel-efficient vehicles, power generation turbines and aerospace components.
We maintain a 
robust anti-corruption training and reporting program in 
addition to our Principles of Business Conduct training.
(p. 17)
BIODIVERSITY 
We own, lease and operate large land holdings, some of 
which are in and adjacent to areas of high biodiversity 
value.
Our operations are managed to identify potential 
impacts and implement the mitigation hierarchy 
to avoid, mitigate or offset impacts to biodiversity, 
including during reclamation activities.
We aim to manage and 
mitigate, to the extent possible, climate-related risks to 
our business with the ambition of being a net positive 
contributor to climate solutions primarily through 
delivery of copper to global markets.
(p. 21) 
HEALTH AND SAFETY 
The safety of our global workforce is our highest priority.
The Linga TSF 
(above) achieves structural stability and efficient water management.
11
2018 WTSD REPORT
HUMAN RIGHTS 
Respect for human rights is a core value and we continue 
to conduct our operations consistent with the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights and the United Nations 
Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.
The Voluntary Principles on Security and 
Human Rights serve as guidelines for our security and 
human rights programs.
We engage openly with our employees and union 
leadership to successfully negotiate and uphold labor 
agreements, recognizing that prolonged strikes or other 
work stoppages at our operations can adversely affect our 
business, our workforce and regional stakeholders.
(p. 14) 
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP 
Our product stewardship team engages downstream 
customers, upstream suppliers, industry associations 
and international governmental agencies on operational 
and product-specific sustainability issues.
We believe 
that proactive engagement on product stewardship issues 
is mandatory to address risks associated with market 
access for our products.
(p. 9) 
TAILINGS MANAGEMENT AND STEWARDSHIP
Through our tailings management and stewardship 
program, we employ substantial engineering expertise, 
technological monitoring, and operational and corporate 
management oversight to design, build, operate and 
monitor these facilities to minimize risk to employees, 
neighboring communities and the environment.
(p. 28) 
WATER SUPPLY AND MANAGEMENT 
We recognize the importance of responsibly managing 
water resources at mining operations in both arid and 
wet regions.
While all of our mining operations require 
secure and reliable quantities of water for mining and 
ore processing, most of our operations are located in 
arid regions of North America and South America.
(p. 27)  
PERFORMANCE TARGETS
BUSINESS ETHICS
Provide comprehensive training on our Principles of Business Conduct, 
including annual certification by management-level employees
√
All employees were trained in 2018, including a 100% 
certification rate by management-level employees.
With our online training module, annually train 90% of selected 
employees who interact with, or have the potential to interact 
with, government officials on anti-corruption laws, regulations and 
company policies and procedures
√
In 2018, 100% of the employees selected to 
participate in the online training completed the course.
WORKFORCE
Increase the percentage of women in our workforce, including 
representation in managerial roles, to 15%
X
Women comprise 13% of our employee population 
and hold 12% of all managerial positions.
HEALTH AND SAFETY
Incur zero fatalities
√
We incurred zero industrial-related fatalities at our 
operations in 2018.
Meet company wide total recordable incident rate (TRIR) of 0.70
X
At 0.71 for 2018, we did not meet our target TRIR.
HUMAN RIGHTS
Incur zero gross human rights violationsa at our operations caused by 
employees and contractors
√
We did not incur any gross human rights violations at 
our operations caused by employees or contractors.
Incur zero penalties in amounts exceeding $100,000
√
Our operations did not incur any penalties 
exceeding $100,000.
Note: All performance targets are annually recurring.
12
Successfully recruiting, retaining, developing and advancing 
talented employees from diverse backgrounds is key to achieving 
our business objectives.
LOCAL HIRING AND SKILLS DEVELOPMENT
Hiring talent from regions where we operate incorporates 
local cultures and knowledge into our business systems while 
supporting local economies.
We maintain tailored training 
programs to facilitate this objective.
Training, which includes life skills coaching, 
ranges from heavy equipment operations and maintenance to 
electrical applications.
Over 1,200 students have entered the 
program through 2018, and approximately 50 percent have 
graduated.
We currently employ 420 Native Americans and/or 
Native Alaskans, an increase of 24 percent year over year.
At PT Freeport Indonesia (PTFI), located in the remote 
province of Papua, Indonesia, we prioritize hiring indigenous 
Papuans.
NMI continues to address skill sets 
needed for PTFI’s underground mining operations.
Above, 
instructor Rick Opitz (left) leads Harvina Bendle and Anthony Gooday in a heavy equipment 
maintenance lesson.
WORKFORCE
At year end 2018
At year end 2018
14
INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY
We operate in regions of varying ethnic, religious and 
cultural backgrounds and are generally the largest employer 
in local communities.
We do 
not tolerate any form of harassment or discrimination 
against individuals on the basis of race, color, sex, religion, 
national origin, disability, age, veteran’s status or any other 
characteristic protected by applicable law.
It is our policy to make all employment decisions on the basis 
of the essential functions of a position and the qualifications 
of each individual for that position, and provide equal pay 
and benefit opportunities to persons with substantially 
similar skills, performance and job responsibilities.
Seeking ways to recruit and foster career development for 
women in our company is important, as women historically 
have been underrepresented in the mining sector.
In 2019, we are launching a global initiative to 
further strengthen our focus on inclusion and diversity in 
the workplace.
LABOR RELATIONS
We respect the rights of our workers to freedom of association 
and collective bargaining and that workers’ rights to join 
a union are maintained.
PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES UNDER COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS
By Operating Region
Seeking ways to foster career development opportunities for women is a company-wide 
objective.
20
100
80
40
60
North America
0%
Europe/Other
72%
Indonesia
71%
South America
65%
Company-wide
37%
WORKFORCE
15
2018 WTSD REPORT
Our highest priority is the health and safety of our employees 
and their families.
Our objective is for zero workplace fatalities, 
injuries and occupational illnesses.
We are committed to providing 
a safe and healthy workplace and providing the training, tools and 
resources needed to identify risks and consistently apply effective 
controls.
Our philosophy of SAFE PRODUCTION is demonstrated by the 
integration of health and safety practices in all aspects of our 
operational activities.
We maintain a corporate group certification 
to the internationally recognized Occupational Health and 
Safety Assessment (OHSAS) 18001 Standard.
We measure our safety performance through regularly 
established benchmarks, including our company wide Total 
Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR).
We worked 131 million hours in 2018 compared to 117 
million hours in the prior year, and we recorded a total of 
464 reportable injuries in 2018 compared to 444 in 2017.
The 
Freeport-McMoRan Contractor Health and Safety Manual 
defines the minimum expectations and requirements for 
contractors working at our operations.
As with our employees, 
site-specific health and safety training is conducted with 
contractors that is tailored to critical control implementation 
and includes the Fatal Risk Management policies and 
processes discussed below.
FATAL RISK MANAGEMENT 
To achieve our objective of incurring zero workplace fatalities 
we have begun implementation of a Fatal Risk Management 
(FRM) program, which is the evolution of our Fatality 
Prevention initiative.
The FRM requires that we identify 
potentially fatal risks in the field and apply the controls 
most critical for avoiding fatal consequences associated 
with the task.
This includes verification and auditing of 
critical controls, as a leading indicator, to assess their proper 
utilization and effectiveness.
In particular, 
our front-line supervisors play a vital role in reviewing 
assigned tasks for the shift and assisting crew members 
with identifying potentially fatal risks.
Above, Engineers Caesar Oppong and Enrique Silva calibrate a 
radar unit that scans for slope movement at Tyrone operations.
The MOC 
requires the proper 
level of review of the 
proposed change by 
multi-disciplined 
personnel with 
appropriate skill sets.
The purpose includes 
avoiding consequences 
of unforeseen 
safety hazards and 
ensuring changes are 
communicated to all 
applicable personnel.
•	
The OSHAS 18001 standard is being replaced by the 
Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems of 
the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 
45001 and will be retired in March 2021.
Planning for the 
transition to ISO 45001 began 
during the year with full 
company-wide conversion 
expected by 2021.
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH
All of our operations 
maintain comprehensive 
occupational health 
programs to assess the risk 
of exposure to occupational 
health hazards and 
identify controls for those 
risks.
Our Field Guide for 
Occupational Health and 
Industrial Hygiene defines 
occupational exposure 
limits, standards and 
practices that apply globally.
These efforts 
are expected to lead to identifying improved critical controls, 
particularly related to dust controls, ventilation systems and 
chemical process monitoring.
HEALTH AND SAFETY
17
2018 WTSD REPORT
We are committed to the highest level of ethical and legal conduct.
The Freeport-McMoRan Principles of Business Conduct (PBC) are 
a commitment to integrity and define the expected behavior of 
all employees and our Board.
We conduct comprehensive training 
on our PBC, including annual certification by management-level 
employees.
We do not tolerate the 
offering or payment 
of bribes, kickbacks 
or other similar 
payments to any 
person or organization 
or government official 
to secure advantages 
for our business.
Likewise, we do not 
accept any of these 
payments.
Our Anti-
Corruption Policy and 
Guidelines require 
compliance with the 
U.S. Foreign Corrupt 
Practices Act (FCPA) 
and other relevant 
anti-corruption laws, 
including local laws.
The training is mandatory for annual completion by 
select groups of employees utilizing a risk-based approach.
FCeX is 
a survey-based software platform designed to assess risk in 
the areas of anti-corruption, international trade and human 
rights.
FCeX has enhanced the company’s ability to identify, 
assess and mitigate compliance risks.
Formal fraud risk 
assessments have been implemented at Atlantic Copper, El 
Abra, Cerro Verde, PTFI 
and our corporate offices 
and mapped with business 
controls which are tested 
and reviewed annually.
All of these 
risk assessments include 
corruption as a risk factor.
EITI is a 
global standard to promote 
transparent and accountable 
management of natural resources.
The initiative is a 
commitment by governments to disclose revenues received 
and by oil, gas and mining companies to disclose natural 
resource payments to governments in an annual EITI report.
We have significant mining operations in Indonesia and Peru, 
both of which are EITI implementing countries.
Senior-level 
PTFI and Cerro Verde personnel actively support the in-country 
EITI processes.
Freeport-McMoRan publicly discloses its material contracts 
and supports contract transparency in the extractives sector.
CASH PAYMENTS TO GOVERNMENTSa
FOR THE YEAR ENDED	
U.S.	
CHILE	
PERU	
INDONESIA	
OTHER	
TOTAL
DECEMBER 31, 2018 ($ MILLIONS)	
	
	
	
	
COUNTRIESb

Corporate Income Taxes, Net of Refunds	
$	 (3)	
$	16	
$	162	
$	705	
$	22	
$	 902
Withholding Taxes on Foreign Dividends 	
	
-	
	 2	
	
1	
	 182	
	
-	
	
185
Employee Payroll Taxesc	
	 309	
	 11	
	
83	
	
54	
	 23	
	
480
Dividends	
	
-	
	
-	
	
-	
	 148	
	
-	
	
148
Royalties and Net Severance Taxes 	
	
24	
	 1	
	
41	
	 214	
	
-	
	
280
Property Taxes 	
	
81	
	
-	
	
-	
	
17	
	 2	
	
100
Other Taxes and Feesd 	
	
52	
	 13	
	
68	
	 207	
	(26)	
	
314
TOTAL 	
$	463	
$	43	
$	355	
$	
1,527	
$	21	
$	
2,409 
a.
This schedule reflects a voluntary effort by Freeport-McMoRan to capture its cash payments to governments (net of refunds).
c. Includes payroll taxes collected on behalf of employees and paid to governments.
We have multiple mechanisms for employees, community 
members and members of our supply chain to report 
concerns.
CERRO VERDE HRIA
We engaged Verisk Maplecroft to carry out an HRIA at our 
Cerro Verde operation in Peru in 2017.
Where the findings identified 
gaps in Cerro Verde’s management systems, cross-functional 
teams developed action plans.
likelihood of continued 
harm) and company influence/leverage.
), and 
alleged and/or actual impacts on air quality (including dust 
and odors).
The Chino and Tyrone teams are reviewing the results of the 
HRIA to develop action plans to address priority risks and 
impacts.
Our 2018 Annual Report to the Voluntary Principles Plenary 
includes country implementation details for Indonesia 
and Peru, as these countries represent our higher risk 
environments in terms of security and human rights.
HUMAN RIGHTS
21
2018 WTSD REPORT
By its nature, mining creates impacts on local communities.
Working with local stakeholders, we implement mitigation 
measures for unavoidable adverse impacts and seek to maximize 
the delivery of positive, lasting social benefits.
Our Community Policy mandates engagement 
and collaboration with local communities to minimize and 
mitigate unavoidable adverse impacts while maximizing 
opportunities to deliver value from our presence.
Open, transparent and regular engagement with a wide 
range of local stakeholders builds our understanding of 
their interests and concerns, encourages communities to 
provide input into our operations and development projects 
and promotes understanding of our business.
This helps 
reduce risks to our operations and our ability to deliver on 
our community development and engagement plans.
Through our active engagement 
and capacity building efforts, we work with stakeholders to 
understand what contributes to community welfare, such 
as health, interconnection, learning, attainment, growth, 
economic opportunity, affordability and financial security.
In addition to direct community investment from individual 
operations and the Freeport-McMoRan Foundation, we have 
established community trust funds or foundations in Chile, 
Indonesia and the U.S. We maintain established Community 
With a social investment from El Abra, 28 families in the indigenous village of Cupo now 
have access to clean, running water.
Cerro Verde is celebrating the 10-year anniversary of the Uchumayo nursery, an innovative 
research and training center with doors open to students and the general public.
These funds typically are managed by community 
members who determine the allocation of resources to 
priority programs that strengthen the foundational elements 
of sustainable communities, including education, health, 
economic development and the environment.
With most of our mining operations located in rural and 
remote areas, Freeport-McMoRan maintains a significant 
focus on supporting efforts aimed at building capacity and 
increasing economic diversification to reduce dependency 
on our presence.
We invest significantly in supporting development of small 
businesses and the ecosystems critical to their success.
Further, Freeport-McMoRan’s Financing 
Your Dream companion course helped women create Capital 
Action Plans to identify and secure funding needed to start 
and sustain their businesses.
The latest survey indicates 
approximately 56 percent of participants have increased 
sales, 34 percent hired additional employees, and 66 percent 
pay themselves a salary (as compared to only 18 percent who 
did so prior to DreamBuilder).
As part of a “G5 Collective,” a coalition of multi-sectoral 
partners, we have committed to invest a minimum of $5 
million to implement additional activities focused on women’s 
empowerment in Chile, Peru, Indonesia and the U.S. by 2021.
Members of the Collective are working to advance SDG 5, 
particularly focusing on women’s economic participation, 
addressing violence against girls and women and advancing 
female leadership in the private and public sectors.
The Amungme and 
Kamoro Community Development Foundation (LPMAK) 
is the Papuan community organization that oversees 
disbursement of these program funds.
LPMAK is governed 
by a Board of Commissioners and a Board of Directors, both 
comprised of representatives from local Amungme and 
Kamoro communities, local government, Papuan regional 
leaders, church leaders and PTFI.
During the transition, the Partnership 
Fund will continue to be capitalized with no interruption in 
implementation of approved health, education and economic 
development projects and programs.
22
2018 GRIEVANCES (226)
	
28%	
Community Benefits
	
24%	
Environment
	
11%	
Health and Safety
	
10%	
Other
	
9%	
Land Rights
	
9%	
Property Damage
	
6%	
Indigenous Peoples
	
3%	
Employment
COMMUNITIES
23
2018 WTSD REPORT
in a timely manner.
For grievances with potential 
high community impacts, company management is involved 
and applicable government authorities are engaged as needed.
During 2018, 226 community grievances were recorded at our 
global operations in addition to approximately 630 grievances 
related to dust events at our Sierrita operation in Arizona.
These inputs are informing updates to our community 
grievance process, which we expect to be completed in 2020.
INDIGENOUS PEOPLES
Our local stakeholder engagement and social investment 
objectives include formal interactions with indigenous peoples 
in Papua, Indonesia, Native Americans in the United States, and 
the traditional communities of Alto El Loa in Chile.
In the U.S., we continue to build on our relationships 
with federally recognized Native American Tribes in the 
southwest, including the Hualapai Tribe, the San Carlos 
Apache Tribe, the Tohono O’odham Nation and the White 
Mountain Apache Tribe.
24
members through our Native American College Scholarship 
Program.
We continue to evaluate a large-scale brownfield expansion 
opportunity at our El Abra operation in Chile, where we 
maintain relationships with indigenous communities.
As 
we advance studies to determine the scope and timing of the 
project, we are committed to respecting the rights, interests, 
aspirations, culture and natural resource-based livelihoods of 
these indigenous communities in project design, development 
and operation.
PTFI’s multi-stakeholder approach includes both 
a water transportation program and economic development 
activities suited for Kamoro culture.
PTFI works with the Kamoro 
to strengthen economic activities and support increased 
production and marketing of local commodities.
This includes 
a fisheries program, which PTFI supports in partnership 
with the Catholic church; the introduction of cocoa as a cash 
crop and a karaka (mangrove crab) aquaculture program 
for Kamoro youth.
All of our mining and mineral processing operations maintain 
Environmental Management Systems (EMS) certified to ISO 
14001:2015, which are independently audited on an annual 
basis.
As part of the EMS, employees and contractors are 
trained on site-specific subject areas, including chemical 
management, waste management, air quality controls, and 
spill prevention and response.
In addition to job-specific 
training, workforce members receive annual environmental 
refresher training and are monitored and supported in the 
field by environmental professionals.
Site management teams 
identify, manage and mitigate environmental risks through 
our structured risk register process.
During 2018, we conducted internal environmental audits 
at 10 operations, and our facilities were inspected by 
governmental regulatory agencies on approximately 100 
occasions.
An executive 
summary and responses to the 2017 audit recommendations 
are posted on our website.
We aim to manage and mitigate, to the extent 
possible, associated risks to our business with the ambition of 
being a net positive contributor to climate solutions through 
delivery of copper to global markets.
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE INDICATORS
	
2018
Reportable spills or releases of hazardous or toxic chemicals	
 15*
NOVs related to permit exceedances, 	
13
spills, releases or other compliance matters	
Environmental Penalties	
$0
* 
Excludes PTFI where approximately 70 reportable spills occurred, including a 
high percentage from pipeline sabotage.
This work has contributed to approximately 27 percent of Safford operation’s greenhouse 
gas profile during 2018.
To produce a metric ton of 
primary copper cathode, approximately 4.8 metric tons 
of carbon emissions are emitted to the atmosphere.
Energy represented 
approximately 20 percent of our 
copper mine operating costs 
in 2018.
This is why our asset-
level objectives include a sharp 
focus on minimizing operating 
costs.
Truck haulage is a major 
contributor to both cost and direct 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.
As our open pits continue 
to mature, haul road length 
increases, and trucks are required 
to move ore farther distances to 
processing facilities.
In 2018, we 
increased mining rates, which 
included reactivation of significant 
truck haulage capacity.
A global benchmark of this metric continues to 
indicate that FMC achieves operational efficiencies 10 percent 
greater than our average mining company peer.
FMC’s total GHG emissions in 
2018 were 4.9 million metric tons 
compared to 5 million metric 
tons the year prior.
Direct, or 
Scope I, emissions increased 
approximately 300,000 metric 
tons, primarily driven by fuel 
consumption associated with 
higher mining rates and stripping 
activity at the Lone Star project 
(accounted by Safford).
In 2018, FMC’s purchased power 
from renewable and low carbon 
sources increased to 87% from 80% 
the year prior.
Thirty percent of 
the purchased power was solely 
generated from renewable sources.
Scope II emissions decreased 
approximately 300,000 metric tons 
from the prior year while consumption of purchased power 
increased by approximately 4 percent.
As the percentage of low 
carbon and renewable power in electric grids increases, we 
expect we can further reduce our Scope II emissions over time.
El Abra in Chile recently extended its energy supply contract 
that increases its consumption of renewable power, and 
by 2021, the operation expects 100 percent of its electrical 
power requirements will be sourced from renewables.
Other 
operations participate in utility demand-side efficiency 
programs and support renewable energy standards when 
feasible, such as providing mining-related properties for 
solar power generation, including 20MW of solar generation 
in Arizona.
Additionally, in late 2018, Freeport entered into a 
14MW renewable purchase power agreement to source wind 
generation from Wyoming to mining operations in Arizona.
We do not currently operate in jurisdictions where existing 
mechanisms for carbon pricing signal a material increase to our 
costs.
In addition to related disclosures in this report, we have 
prepared a separate Climate Impacts and Opportunities report.
By 2021, renewable energy is expected to supply 100 percent 
of the operation’s power requirements.
Our mining 
operations are in areas where competition for water supplies 
is significant.
Our operations utilized1 approximately 1,540 million cubic 
meters of water during 2018, including water withdrawals2 of 
approximately 300 million cubic meters.
Our objective is to maintain high rates of recycled or reused 
water, and our performance has approximated 80 percent in 
recent years.
•	
Securing long-term and annual allocations of Colorado 
River water, considered a renewable source in Arizona, 
where the company operates in an arid climate.
This effort 
is focused on obtaining both short-term and long-term 
water supply contracts with multiple Native American 
tribes who have senior water rights in the state.
Technical and economic 
studies are being advanced to determine the optimal scope 
and timing for the project.
During such 
events, it is critical to route on-site water from areas in danger 
of overflowing to areas with adequate storage capacity.
At the operating level, each active mining and metals 
processing facility evaluates climate-related risks and 
opportunities through its sustainable development risk 
register process.
Today, through the Program, we employ substantial 
engineering expertise, technological monitoring, and local 
and corporate management oversight to validate these 
facilities are designed, built, operated and monitored to 
minimize risk to employees, neighboring communities and 
the environment.
The majority of our recycled water originates from reclaimed water captured at tailings facilities 
and leach pads.
Above, water on the Morenci tailing impoundment is set to be recycled.
ENVIRONMENT
29
2018 WTSD REPORT
Active TSFs are continually monitored for embankment dam structural stability and 
environmental aspects such as dust generation potential.
While we believe our Tailings 
Management and Stewardship Program is robust and mitigates 
risks, we continue to identify opportunities for continuous 
improvement in all aspects of our Program.
These 
boards provide independent opinions and guidance on the 
physical integrity, safety and performance of our tailings 
storage facilities and associated management systems.
Each Technical Review Board for operating sites has direct 
access to the Chief Operating Officer and direct access to 
the Vice President-Environmental Services and Sustainable 
Development for inactive/legacy sites, and each member has 
a responsibility to report any concerns not being adequately 
addressed by line management.
We track 
recommended actions from inception to completion.
The company then deploys resources to remediate findings.
•	
Continued development of the risk-informed decision-
making process and screening design criteria and 
completed a gap analysis on available information for all 
TSFs, particularly for inactive and closed TSFs that were 
previously considered lower priority.
•	
Continued to enhance surveillance and monitoring tools 
such as developing a mobile data acquisition system tool 
for field inspections and other key performance indicator 
data collection activities.
Controlled Riverine Tailings Management 
PTFI’s controlled riverine tailings management system is 
implemented based on methods approved and permitted 
by the Government of Indonesia.
The MMB is a multi-
disciplinary expert panel that meets on site to assess system 
performance and risks associated with the ModADA and 
coastal zone area.
Impacts of the system, 
including increases in sedimentation, were predicted in 
numerous studies and are consistent with the design and 
operation of the chosen alternative.
Data from biological sampling continues to demonstrate that 
the estuaries downstream of the tailings deposition area are 
functioning ecosystems, based on both the number of species 
and the number of specimens collected of nektonic, or free-
swimming, organisms such as fish and shrimp.
We reclaim inactive TSFs by regrading slopes, conveying and diverting storm water, capping 
with soil cover, and reseeding with native grasses and shrubs.
ENVIRONMENT
31
2018 WTSD REPORT
BIODIVERSITY
We are committed to minimizing the impacts of our 
operations on biodiversity and ecosystem services while 
promoting opportunities to conserve and enhance resources 
in the areas in which we operate.
Our commitment to biodiversity conservation is further 
supported by the implementation of wildlife protection 
plans at North American operations.
These plans present 
biodiversity baseline conditions, assess potential wildlife 
risks associated with our operations and identify protection 
measures.
At 
international operations, we apply similar biodiversity action 
plans to address risks to important species while promoting 
conservation opportunities.
In 2018, we continued long-term programs to promote the 
conservation of imperiled species.
Examples include:
•	
Tyrone, Morenci and Miami operations implemented 
management plans developed in consultation with the 
U.S.
•	
Sierrita operations voluntarily relocated over 200 
endangered Pima pineapple cactus from the mine site 
to a company-owned property that is protected under a 
conservation easement.
Through its Biodiversity 
Action Plans, PTFI aims to (1) recognize the important role that 
biodiversity plays in sustainable development, (2) establish a 
Morenci partnered with multiple stakeholders to install a bat-friendly gate at the Eagle 
Creek bat cave.
Freeport-McMoRan’s Pollinator Conservation Initiative creates habitats vital to global 
ecosystems.
Today, 14 operations are implementing pollinator conservation projects in 
collaboration with local stakeholders.
32
strong partnership with multiple stakeholder groups involved 
in conservation and natural resource management, including 
local governments and citizens, (3) effectively manage local 
biodiversity for the region, and (4) provide biodiversity 
education, research and information opportunities.
Countering illegal wildlife trade is a priority for Papua’s 
natural resource agencies and part of PTFI’s commitment to 
biodiversity conservation in Papua.
PTFI cooperates with the 
Indonesia Animal Rescue Center, Forest Protection & Nature 
Conservation, Forestry Department, Lorentz National Park 
Center and Wasur National Park Center to repatriate protected 
animals to their habitats.
During 2018, company staff engaged 
over 120 employee and community volunteers to propagate 
and plant native agave species that serve as the bats’ primary 
food source.
Freeport-McMoRan participates in the WHC certification 
program, which formally recognizes meaningful biodiversity 
conservation and environmental education and community 
outreach programs.
In 2018, 
Henderson won WHC’s Invasive Species Management Award 
for its efforts to remove invasive species and enhanced native 
habitat while Morenci received the Mammals Project Award 
for its Rocky Mountain bighorn sheep management activities.
Multiple important species are 
nurtured and protected from predators before their release into the surrounding habitats of 
the lowlands.
Each year approximately 400 
photos are submitted by employees, 
and the contest successfully engages 
our workforce on biodiversity 
appreciation and promotes habitats 
at our worldwide operations.
Winning photos from the popular 
contest are featured in the Wildlife 
Habitat Council’s Corporate Homes 
for Wildlife calendar, which is 
distributed internationally.
The 
calendar showcases efforts by member 
companies to enhance and conserve 
wildlife habitat on corporate lands.
Winning photos selected by the 
company’s Biodiversity Task Force are 
presented on this page.
2018 Biodiversity Photo Contest Co-Winner: Mountain Goat by Chris Schmitz, Chief Mine Engineer-Climax
Pictured: A mountain goat attracted by salt on a hillside at Climax operations with Mount Arkansas in the background.
Excludes PTFI where approximately 35 reportable spills occurred in 2017 and 70 in 2018, including a high percentage from pipeline sabotage.
35
2018 WTSD REPORT
TREND DATA
	
 2014	
2015	
 2016	
 2017	
 2018
WORKFORCE
Employees 	
35,000	
34,500	
30,000	
25,200	
26,800
Contractors 	
46,300	
37,500	
29,100	
28,000	
38,800
Percent Employees Under Collective Bargaining Agreements	
48%	
48%	
47%	
39%	
37%
HEALTH AND SAFETY
Workforce Fatalities 	
7	
3	
6	
5	
0
Total Recordable Incident Ratea	
0.56	
0.56	
0.64	
0.76	
0.71
Occupational Illness Cases	
46	
43	
26	
38	
42
ENVIRONMENT
Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions (million metric tons)	
5.2	
6.0	
5.5	
4.5	
5.2
Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions (million metric tons)	
4.3	
4.6	
4.9	
3.6	
3.2
Total Utilized Water (million cubic meters)	
1,326	
1,459	
1,738	
1,560	
1,543
Percent Recycled Water	
79%	
80%	
81%	
82%	
81%
Reportable spills or releases of hazardous 
or toxic chemicals	
14	
13	
23	
11b	
15b
Notices of Violations related to permit exceedances, 
spills, releases or other compliance matters	
11	
2	
5	
0	
13
Environmental Penalties ($ thousands)	
$ 
124	
$ 
43	
$ 
0	
$ 
317c	
$ 
 
0
SOCIAL
Community Investments ($ millions)	
$ 
198	
$ 
165	
$ 
142	
$ 
153	
$ 
155 
Cash Payments to Governmentsd ($ millions)	
$ 3,355	
$ 1,993	
$ 1,428	
$ 1,346	
$ 2,409 
Direct Economic Contributionsd ($ millions)	
$ 17,030	
$ 14,475	
$ 13,414	
$ 12,158	
$14,663
