OUR APPROACH
The nature of our business impacts the environment and communities surrounding our 
operations.
We mitigate impacts to the extent practicable through advanced control and 
remediation measures.
We develop infrastructure, support health, safety and education 
efforts, and provide local employment and business development opportunities.
The 
products we produce are critical for sustainability and higher standards of living.
To supply essential metals to current and future generations, we are guided by our 
stated business objectives, principles and policies, and we work continuously to improve 
our sustainable development programs.
These accessible channels complement our 
long-established community and human rights grievance systems.
Supporting this 
framework are internal governance and management systems that detail how we operate.
We will maintain our efforts to continuously improve all elements of our sustainability 
performance and are eager to engage with stakeholders on this continued journey.
The board believes that full and open communication 
between senior management and the board is essential 
to effective risk oversight.
The board 
oversees the strategic direction of the company, and in 
doing so, considers the potential rewards and risks of our 
business opportunities and challenges, and monitors the 
development and management of risks that impact our 
strategic goals.
The Corporate 
Responsibility Committee assists the board in fulfilling its 
oversight responsibilities, including with respect to the 
company’s 1) environmental policy and implementation 
programs; 2) human rights policy and practices; 3) 
safety and health policies and programs; 4) community 
health programs and related public health matters; 
and 5) community policy and practices, governmental 
and stakeholder relations, and social investment and 
sustainable development programs.
In 
addition, the Corporate Responsibility Committee reviewed 
community medical and public health services including our 
malaria and other disease prevention programs in Indonesia 
and the DRC, our global social expenditures, community 
engagement efforts, political activity and spending 
practices, the safety reporting process at our operations, 
our risk management and sustainability programs, our 
human rights program, our product stewardship program, 
and our tailings stewardship program.
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT LEADERSHIP TEAM
The company’s Sustainable Development Leadership Team 
considers both imminent matters and emerging trends while 
providing strategic guidance for our programs.
The team 
is sponsored by our Executive Vice President and Chief 
Administrative Officer, and is led by our Vice President of 
Environmental Services and Sustainable Development.
That is why early, ongoing and transparent engagement 
with stakeholders is critical.
Doing so in a genuine 
and consistent manner creates mutually beneficial 
opportunities while reducing sustainability-related risks to 
our business plans.
We seek strategic partnerships with 
host governments, communities and development partners 
to ensure the viability of our projects while making a 
positive contribution to sustainable development, including 
post-closure.
In 2016, our corporate 
team engaged with over 60 of these organizations on topics 
including fatality prevention, human rights, environmental 
management, revenue transparency, water resources and 
community development projects.
Members of our Product 
Stewardship team engage both downstream customers 
and international governmental agencies on operational 
and product-specific sustainability issues.
Our Product Stewardship team is led by our Vice President 
of Environmental Services and Sustainable Development 
and is coordinated with our global product sales and legal 
teams with support from multiple technical experts.
To learn more 
about the societal benefits of copper, from renewable energy to 
public health, visit www.copperalliance.org.
The health and safety 
management systems and environmental management 
systems of our operations obtain independent certification 
to Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series 
(OHSAS) 18001 and International Organization for 
Standardization (ISO) 14001, respectively.
These systems 
include corrective and preventive action tracking for 
internal and external audit findings.
Our Tailings Stewardship 
Program includes inspections and reviews all active and 
inactive tailings storage facilities.
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT RISK REGISTER
The Freeport-McMoRan Sustainable Development 
framework is implemented based on operation-specific 
factors and influences, including regional context, type of 
operation and social setting.
The Sustainable Development 
Department and senior corporate multi-disciplinary 
personnel coordinate with operations to ensure prioritization 
processes are consistent with corporate procedures and 
provide guidance to ensure alignment of priorities and 
mitigation plans.
Sustainability focus areas identified through this process 
at the global level are reviewed annually by our Sustainable 
Development Leadership Team and communicated 
to members of the board.
Members of the Tailings Stewardship Team (TST) inspect the 
Bagdad tailings dam as part of an annual audit.
The TST is a multi-
disciplinary group of internal and external experts that evaluate 
the design, operation and maintenance of tailings storage 
facilities.
The company operates 18 active and 52 inactive or 
closed tailings dams.
SUSTAINABILITY 
FOCUS AREAS
BIODIVERSITY
We own, lease and operate large land holdings, some of which are in and adjacent to areas 
of high biodiversity value.
Our operations are managed to identify potential impacts and, 
where practicable, implement actions that conserve and enhance biodiversity, including 
during reclamation activities.
We maintain a rigid anti-corruption training and 
reporting program.
In 2016, 
approximately 63 percent of our purchased power was from low carbon sources, 
including natural gas and renewable energy.
We have modeled multiple carbon tax 
scenarios to understand the range of potential increases to our operating costs.
(p. 19)
We continue to deploy DreamBuilder: The Women’s Business Creator; a free, online entrepreneurial 
training program designed to assist women of all education levels.
Graduate Patricia Quezada 
participates in an enterprise fair organized by the municipality of Calama, Chile.
We engage openly with our employees and union leadership 
to successfully negotiate and uphold labor agreements recognizing that prolonged 
strikes or other work stoppages at our operations can adversely affect our business, our 
workforce and regional stakeholders.
(p. 14)
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP
Our product stewardship team engages downstream customers and international 
governmental agencies on operation and product-specific sustainability issues.
(p. 8)
SAFETY AND HEALTH
The safety of our global workforce is our highest priority.
(p. 15)
TAILINGS
Managing the volume of tailings, waste rock and leach material produced in our mining 
operations presents significant environmental, safety and engineering challenges and 
risks.
Through our Tailings Stewardship Program we implement 
control systems, which include independent expert input and review to address these 
risks.
(p. 29)
WATER SUPPLY AND MANAGEMENT
We recognize the importance of responsibly managing water resources at mining 
operations in both arid and wet regions.
While all of our mining operations require secure 
and reliable quantities of water for mining and ore processing, most of our operations are 
located in arid regions of North America and South America.
12
Freeport-McMoRan
PERFORMANCE TARGETS
2016 
STATUS
2016 PERFORMANCE DESCRIPTION
TARGET
DATE
BUSINESS ETHICS
With our online training module, annually 
train 90% of targeted employees who interact 
with, or have the potential to interact with, 
government officials on anti-corruption 
laws, regulations and company policies 
and procedures
√
We conduct comprehensive training on our Principles of 
Business Conduct for all employees.
Management-level 
employees receive annual certification and approximately 
97% were trained in 2016.
Annually 
Recurring
WORKFORCE
Increase the percentage of women in our 
workforce, including representation in 
managerial positions, to 15%
X
Women comprise 10% of our employee population and hold 
10% of all managerial positions, which is relatively unchanged 
from recent years.
Annually 
Recurring
Meet company-wide total recordable incident 
rate (TRIR)a of 0.56
 X
Our TRIRa was 0.64 for 2016.
Annually 
Recurring
HUMAN RIGHTS
Incur zero grossb human rights violations 
at our operations caused by employees 
and contractors
√ 
We did not incur any gross human rights violations at our 
operations caused by employees or contractors.
We 
did have 23 spills or releases that were reportable to national 
agencies based on applicable regulations.
Annually 
Recurring
Incur zero penalties more than $100,000 
√ 
Our operations did not incur any penalties exceeding $100,000.
Includes oil and gas assets.
PERFORMANCE TARGETS
WORKFORCE
Successfully recruiting, developing and retaining talented 
employees from diverse backgrounds is key to achieving 
our business objectives.
LOCAL HIRING AND SKILLS DEVELOPMENT
Hiring talent from regions where we operate incorporates 
local cultures and knowledge into our business systems 
while supporting local economic development.
Our training partnership program with the San Carlos 
Apache Tribe in Arizona is designed to increase the skills 
and employability of Apache students who generally live in 
communities with high unemployment rates.
Through 2016, over 
870 students have entered the program and approximately 
50 percent have graduated.
The San Carlos Training Institute continues to develop skilled 
workers in Arizona by providing reservation-based technical 
training to enhance the employability of Apache students.
Seeking ways to recruit and foster career development 
for women in our company continues to be important, as 
women traditionally have been underrepresented in the 
mining sector.
In 2016, of the reports 
made through the Freeport-McMoRan Compliance Line, 
29 included allegations of some form of discriminatory 
or harassing conduct.
LABOR RELATIONS
As of December 31, 2016, our workforce consisted of 
approximately 30,000 employees and 29,100 contractors.
Approximately 47 percent of our employee 
population is covered by collective bargaining agreements 
and 34 percent of our employees are covered by 
agreements that will be renegotiated during 2017, including 
the collective labor agreement at PTFI.
Our policy is to ensure 
fair treatment and work conditions for all employees, 
including rights to freedom of association and collective 
bargaining.
Due to market conditions, we revised our production plans 
to adjust for the lower commodity prices beginning in 2015.
These revisions continued into 2016, with layoffs affecting 
both our mining and oil and gas operations in North 
America.
We adopted a multi-stage process for determining 
layoffs at our mining operations, including these elements: 
•	
Eligible employees were offered the opportunity to 
participate in early retirement programs
•	
Employees at specific operations were offered a 
voluntary resignation package
•	
Employees were encouraged to transfer to other 
locations to fill openings they were qualified to perform, 
and special relocation assistance was provided in 
these situations
•	
Employees who were laid off were offered severance 
packages and outplacement services including career 
coaching and resume-writing assistance
We seek ways to recruit and foster career development for women 
in our company.
Our 
philosophy of Safe Production is demonstrated by the 
integration of health and safety practices in all aspects of 
our operational activities.
Our Board of Directors requires 
comprehensive audits to assure the safety management 
system is effective and resources are applied to achieve the 
company’s policy objectives.
Our Health and Safety Management System is a framework 
from which we manage risks and compliance obligations.
As 
of November 2016, the system is certified at the corporate-
level in accordance with the internationally recognized 
OHSAS 18001 standard.
Surveillance audits will 
continue to be conducted annually by the internal audit 
team and independent audits will be conducted at select 
operations on a rotating basis.
No distinction is drawn between contractors and our 
own employees with regard to health and safety 
performance and reporting.
The Freeport-McMoRan 
Contractor Safety Manual defines the minimum 
expectations and requirements for contractors working 
at our operations.
Site-specific health and safety training 
is conducted with each contractor and tailored to their 
work location, task-specific hazard identification and 
critical control implementation.
We worked 153.1 million hours in 2016 
compared to 200.5 million hours in the prior year, and 
we recorded a total of 492 reportable injuries in 2016 
compared to 564 in 2015.
It consists of 
a suite of tools to assist supervisors in planning for, and 
communicating to the broader workforce, the management 
requirements associated with the potentially fatal risks 
of daily activities.
Included are tools to verify, at the work 
task location, that critical controls are fully understood and 
properly implemented.
This includes utilizing basic icons 
for visualizing potentially fatal risks and critical control 
checklists for in-field verifications.
In 2016, we created a Critical Control Improvement Team 
comprised of multiple engineering disciplines.
The effort is 
focused on the quality and reliability of engineered controls 
and the reduction in risks associated with specific tasks.
The team has recently 
evaluated in detail, risks associated with safe access 
for working at heights, fly metal hazards associated with 
stacker operations and elimination of human pinch points.
The team’s success is measured by improved safety 
performance as demonstrated by the reduction in HEHI 
(high energy high impact) events at our operations.
In addition, 
independent experts assisted the company with the 
development of an Electrowinning(EW)/Electrorefining(ER) 
Electrical Safety Policy.
In 2016, operations in North America developed Safe 
Production plans, which included leading metrics.
FATAL RISK MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
Vehicle Collision or Rollover
Vehicle Impact on Person
Fall from heights
Entanglement and Crushing
Uncontrolled Release of Energy
Lifting Operations
Fire
Contact with Electricity
Falling Objects
Exposure to Hazardous Substances
Confined Spaces
Blasting
Drowning
Ground Failure
Rail Collision
Rail Impact on person
Contact with Molten Material
Underground Rock fall
Underground Hazardous Atmosphere
Underground Inrush
Personnel Hoisting
Aircraft Operation
2016 WORKPLACE FATALITIES
Including Contractors
OPERATION
EVENT DESCRIPTION
PTFI
Papua, Indonesia
A lineman received a fatal electrical shock while working on a twin circuit 230kV Transmission Line.
A mill electrician was troubleshooting maintenance work on power cables in an overhead cable tray when the cable 
tray collapsed.
A warehouse employee was walking through the warehouse yard when he walked in front of and was fatally struck 
by a moving 988H wheel loader forklift.
As the dozer moved, 
the crest of the narrow catch bank gave away and the dozer fell, fatally injuring the dozer operator.
The Freeport-McMoRan Principles of Business 
Conduct (PBC) are a commitment to integrity and define 
the expected behavior of all employees and our board.
We 
conduct comprehensive training on our PBC, including 
annual certification of management-level employees 
(approximately 97 percent were trained in 2016).
Beginning in 
2017, the PBC training is provided annually to all employees.
We do not 
tolerate the offering or payment of bribes, kickbacks or 
other similar payments to any person or organization 
or government official to secure 
advantages for our business.
Likewise, we do not accept any of 
these payments.
Our Anti-Corruption 
Policy and Guidelines require 
compliance with the U.S. Foreign 
Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (FCPA) 
and other relevant anticorruption 
laws, including local laws.
The training is mandatory for 
annual completion by select groups 
of employees utilizing a risk-based 
approach.
During 2016, we held in-person classroom training at our 
Phoenix corporate offices, Cerro Verde, Atlantic Copper, 
PTFI and TFM.
In addition, classes were 
held for contractors at PTFI.
FCeX is a survey-based software platform designed 
to assess risk in the areas of anti-corruption, international 
trade and human rights.
FCeX has significantly enhanced 
the company’s ability to identify, assess and mitigate 
compliance risks.
Formal fraud risk assessments have been implemented at 
Atlantic Copper, corporate offices and PTFI, and mapped 
with business controls, which are tested and reviewed 
annually.
All of these 
risk assessments include corruption 
as a risk factor.
Spain, which prohibits anonymous reporting in accordance
with Spain’s Data Protection Act (Organic Law 15/1999 
on the Protection of Personal Data), is an exception.
EITI is a global standard to promote transparent 
and accountable management of natural resources.
The 
initiative is a commitment by governments to disclose 
revenues received, and by oil, 
gas and mining companies 
to disclose natural resource 
payments to governments in an annual EITI report.
Today, Freeport-McMoRan maintains significant mining 
operations in Indonesia, Peru and the United States, all EITI 
implementing countries.
Senior-level Freeport-McMoRan 
employees are representatives on these countries’ 
multi-stakeholder groups or are actively supporting the 
in-country processes.
President and Chief Operating Officer – Americas, Red Conger, 
addresses delegates at the EITI 7th Global Conference in Lima, 
Peru.
CASH PAYMENTS TO GOVERNMENTSa
BUSINESS ETHICS
For the year ended	
U.S.	
Chile	
Peru	
Indonesia	
DRC	
Other	
Total
December 31, 2016 ($ millions)	
	
	
	
	
	
Countriesb

Corporate Income Taxes, Net of Refunds	
$ (163  	
$ 11  	
$    16  	
$    60  	
$    33  	
$ 
 
12  	
$    (31
Withholding Taxes on Foreign Dividends 	
-	
9	
-	
-	
-	
-	
9
Employee Payroll Taxesc	
372	
9	
31	
37	
37	
27	
513
Royalties and Net Severance Taxes 	
156	
4	
14	
116	
21	
-	
311
Property Taxes 	
163	
-	
-	
31	
-	
2	
196
Other Taxes and Fees 	
51	
8	
77	
191	
113	
(10	
430
Total 	
$ 579  	
$ 41  	
$138  	
$435  	
$204  	
$31  	
$1,428  
a.

This schedule reflects a voluntary effort by Freeport-McMoRan to capture its cash payments to governments (net of refunds).
c. Includes payroll taxes collected on behalf of employees and paid to governments.
  )
Our site-specific human rights 
programs and systems are consistent with our corporate 
Human Rights Policy, in-country laws and regulations, and 
the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights 
(Voluntary Principles).
PLANNING THE CERRO VERDE HUMAN RIGHTS 
IMPACT ASSESSMENT 
Preliminary work on a site-level HRIA for our Cerro Verde 
operation in Peru (Cerro Verde HRIA) was initiated in 2016.
We plan to complete the Cerro Verde HRIA in 2017.
The Cerro 
Verde HRIA will apply the “but for” test in relation to the 
identification and assessment of human rights impacts 
caused by, contributed to or linked to Cerro Verde.
SECURITY
The Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights 
serve as guidelines for our security and human rights 
programs, interactions with host government police and 
military personnel, and 
with private security 
contractors.
Our 2016 Report includes country 
implementation details for Indonesia, Peru, and the DRC as 
these countries represented our higher risk environments 
in terms of security and human rights.
HUMAN RIGHTS
PTFI’s Human Rights Compliance Officer conducts a training 
session on the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights 
for host government security personnel prior to their deployment 
to the project area.
COMMUNITIES
Mining operations inevitably create economic, social and 
environmental impacts on local communities.
Our Community Policy 
requires collaboration with communities to minimize and 
mitigate unavoidable adverse impacts and to maximize 
opportunities to deliver value from our operations.
Transparent and consistent engagement ensures 
communities have input into our development projects and 
ongoing operations, promotes understanding of our business, 
and ultimately reduces risk to our plans.
In addition to direct community investment from operations 
and the corporate Freeport-McMoRan Foundation, we have 
established community trust funds or social funds in Chile, 
Indonesia, Peru and the U.S.
These funds are managed 
by community members who determine the allocation of 
resources to programs that focus on education, health, 
economic development and the environment.
We are evaluating 
areas where we can have the most impact in 
advancing the SDGs.
During 2016, we continued to support improvement in 
science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) 
education through teacher development and retention 
initiatives.
The initiative aims to increase their content 
knowledge and confidence in teaching math in order to 
improve students’ ability to master core mathematical 
concepts by the eighth grade.
Our focus on 
STEM is aligned with the long-term technical requirements 
of our business.
Evaluation of graduates a year or more after graduation 
indicated that 93 percent increased business sales, 46 
percent hired additional employees and 76 percent paid 
themselves a salary versus only 22 percent who did so 
before participating in the program.
We have committed to invest $5 million to promote women’s 
economic empowerment and address violence against 
women in Chile, Peru and Indonesia by 2021 as part of 
a “Girls, Women & the Global Goals” coalition of multi-
sectoral partners convened by No Ceilings, Vital Voices, 
and WEConnect International.
Local women celebrate graduation from a literacy program 
supported by the TFM Social Community Fund and a local NGO 
partner.
Initially planned for 300 participants, the program that 
teaches reading, writing, basic math and financial savings now 
reaches over 700 women and girls.
In 2016, PTFI signed a multi-year agreement with Bank 
Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) to increase Papuan entrepreneurs’ 
access to financial capital in order to grow their small 
businesses.
BRI will administer the micro-loans and PTFI will 
underwrite the loans and connect Papuan entrepreneurs 
from its Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprise Development 
(MSME) program to the bank.
GRIEVANCE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
Our operations utilize a community grievance management 
system for recording, processing and responding to local 
concerns.
Site-level Community Grievance 
Officers ensure community grievances are handled in a 
timely and transparent manner.
In addition to grievances discussed in the photo caption 
above, 106 community grievances were recorded at our 
global operations (excluding TFM) during 2016.
Grievance remedies ranged from home relocations to replacement of windows.
Before 
finalization, the procedure will be reviewed with a set of 
community stakeholders to ensure effectiveness from 
their perspective.
PTFI has engaged with indigenous Papuan tribes for 
decades, including through multiple formal agreements to 
promote workforce skills training, health, education and 
basic infrastructure development.
The desire of indigenous 
Papuans to preserve cultural heritage is shared by PTFI and 
continuously demonstrated through support for cultural 
festivals and books documenting the social uniqueness of 
the Amungme and Kamoro tribes.
The purpose of the West Levee Extension 
project is to contain the projected increase in tailings as 
PTFI transitions from an open pit to a fully underground 
operation.
The extension project temporarily closed 
the Yamaima channel, which local communities have 
historically accessed.
As a result of the study 
and conversations with the impacted communities, PTFI 
excavated an alternative channel to mitigate the impact of 
the closure of the Yamaima channel.
As a result of this community 
feedback, PTFI is now operating passenger boats to provide 
regular water transportation services between coastal 
villages to the east of the tailings deposition area and 
the healthcare, education and economic trade facilities 
available in the Timika region to the west.
COMMUNITIES
Miami, Arizona operations hosts approximately 30 members of 
the National Tribal Mining Workgroup, an EPA-funded program 
designed to provide Native American tribes with resources to 
learn about the mining industry.
Water from the 
pipeline entered the Loa River on which the community of 
Taira depends for livelihoods.
The community complained 
that resulting turbidity in the river created sedimentation 
and clogged its irrigation pipelines, and the salinity of water 
potentially impacted pastureland.
The company provided 1,000 bundles of grass to the 
community for animal feed to mitigate any potential damage 
to pastureland.
El Abra has begun a process to analyze the 
feasibility of sedimentation impacting irrigation pipes and 
the implementation of further preventive measures.
One of the most 
significant investments was in the Don Bosco Technical 
School, which opened to 600 students in 2016, allowing 
them to receive quality training needed to facilitate future 
employability.
In the U.S., we continued our partnerships with Native 
American Tribes including the Hualapai Tribe, the San 
Carlos Apache Tribe, the Tohono O’odham Nation, and the 
White Mountain Apache Tribe.
These partnership Tribes 
have maintained their focus on education as a top priority 
for their community members; the company continued its 
Native American Scholarship program, awarding 39 college 
scholarships in 2016 to Tribal Members who are enrolled 
Members of our partnership Tribes.
In addition, support to 
Arizona State University helped address Native American 
student retention rates and related higher education 
efforts.
The development of future youth leaders was the 
focus of an ongoing partnership with the United National 
Indian Tribal Youth (UNITY) organization.
Our support for these Native American initiatives 
exceeded $2.7 million in 2016.
All of our mining and mineral processing operations 
maintain Environmental Management Systems (EMS) 
certified to ISO 14001, which are independently audited 
on an annual basis.
As part of the EMS, employees and 
contractors are trained on environmental awareness in 
subject areas including chemical management, waste 
management, and spill prevention and response.
In addition 
to job-specific training, workforce members receive annual 
environmental refresher training.
Our 
remaining operations will have until September 2018 to 
certify under that standard.
All operations have corrective action programs associated 
with the overarching EMS.
When our operations have been assessed 
penalties, they typically are individually below $100,000.
Energy represented approximately 20 
percent of our copper mine site operating costs during 2016.
Our worldwide total greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, 
measured as carbon dioxide equivalent emissions, were 
approximately 10.4 million metric tons divided between 
direct (52 percent) and indirect (48 percent) emissions for 
2016.
Indirect emissions are primarily those emitted by our 
electricity providers.
In 2016, approximately 63 percent 
of our purchased power was from low carbon sources, 
including natural gas and renewable energy.
The HRC 3000 at Morenci is the largest high pressure roll crusher 
in the world.
High pressure roll crusher technology 
is being deployed as a highly energy efficient means of crushing 
ore compared to traditional mill circuits.
The 
majority of our mining activity occurs in open pits.
As an 
open pit matures, haul road length increases and haul 
trucks are required to move ore additional distances to the 
processing facility.
Crushing, milling, pumping and electrowinning are the 
most significant power-consuming processes at our 
facilities.
We continue to invest 
annually in energy-related research and development 
through our technology center, technical services and 
operational improvement groups.
We provide mining-
related property for solar power generation.
Our mining operations are currently not located in 
jurisdictions where there is a direct cost associated with our 
GHG emissions.
2016 TOTAL (SCOPE I) CARBON DIOXIDE 
EQUIVALENT EMISSIONS
By Fuel Type
	 51%	
Liquid Fuels
	 37%	

Coala
	
7%	
Otherb 
	
5%	
Gas Fuels
2016 TOTAL (SCOPE I AND II) CARBON DIOXIDE 
EQUIVALENT EMISSIONS
10.4 Million Metric Tons
	 45%	

North America
	 30%	

Indonesia
	 20%	
South America
	
3%	
Africa
	
2%	
Europe
a.
While all our mining operations 
require secure and reliable quantities of water for mining 
and ore processing, most of our operations are located in 
the arid regions of North America and South America.
The majority of our recycled 
water originates from reclaimed water capture at tailings 
storage facilities and leach pads.
Cerro Verde continues to provide financial and technical support 
for water-efficient crop irrigation systems in nearby communities.
More than 440 local farming families are now utilizing over 27 
kilometers of lined irrigation channels to prevent excess water loss.
The WWTP is designed to treat approximately 
90 percent of Arequipa’s domestic sewage and industrial 
discharges that previously reported directly into the Rio 
Chili.
TAILINGS
The tailings and waste rock (including overburden) that 
we produce represent our largest volume of waste.
Managing these volumes produced in our mining operations 
presents significant environmental, safety and engineering 
challenges.
In 2016, we produced approximately 204 million 
and 231 million metric tons of tailings and waste rock, 
respectively.
The primary risks associated with managing 
waste rock stockpiles and tailings relate to structural 
stability, geochemistry, water quality and dust generation.
Management of this waste is regulated in the jurisdictions 
where we operate, and our programs are designed to be in 
compliance with applicable national, state and local laws, 
permits and approved Environmental Impact Studies.
Freeport-McMoRan’s objective is to have zero catastrophic 
structural failures of tailings storage facilities (TSFs).
We 
maintain an active and robust tailings management and 
stewardship program designed for continual improvement 
and assurance, currently operating 18 TSFs and managing 
52 TSFs that are inactive or have been reclaimed.
The Tailings Stewardship Program includes inspection and 
management processes associated with water dams and 
crush leach stockpiles.
At the operational level, qualified internal tailings-dedicated 
engineers and onsite leaders manage TSF stability.
We 
employ qualified external Engineer(s) of Record (EoRs) for 
analyses, designs, inspections, and reviews for stability.
Water balance management is incorporated with tailings 
management as a key driver of structural stability.
At TSFs located in arid regions, our tailings 
management program includes measures to reduce fugitive 
dust emissions from the surface of tailings impoundments 
and increase reclaimed water capture to reduce freshwater 
consumption.
Our efforts to limit dust generation include 
the application of magnesium chloride, polymers, watering 
and wind fencing.
At the corporate level, we manage TSF stability through 
our Tailings Stewardship Program, which includes multiple 
levels of inspection and review.
The TST documents, prioritizes and tracks progress on 
recommended actions.
The TST inspects all active and 
select inactive TSFs annually (including Cerro Verde in 
2017).
Our corporate tailings experts communicate 
frequently with all of our operations with TSFs and follow-
up on recommended actions regularly.
In 2016, our TST 
conducted annual field inspections at 17 active and 20 
inactive TSFs.
Sites have achieved 98 percent completion 
on TST recommended activities for TSFs (2004 to 2016).
We have studied the published investigation 
and technical panel reports related to these failures.
We participated in the ICMM Tailings Working Group and 
support the ICMM Position statement on preventing 
catastrophic failure of tailings storage facilities published 
in December 2016.
Freeport-McMoRan utilizes all elements 
of the Tailings Governance Framework: accountability, 
responsibility, and competency; planning and resourcing; 
risk management; change management; emergency 
preparedness and response; and review and assurance.
Members of the TST inspect the Henderson Tailings Dam in Colorado.
This effort 
included drafting competency requirements for tailings 
engineers and managers.
Levees have been and continue 
to be constructed to laterally contain the footprint of the 
tailings and to limit their impact in the lowlands.
PTFI has a tailings and river management department 
with dedicated management, engineers, lab services and 
operations for tailings activities.
We manage waste rock and overburden in stockpiles for 
possible future mineral recovery, reclamation or other 
projects.
These stockpiles are regularly monitored and 
evaluated for structural stability in accordance with local 
seismic design criteria.
At PTFI, overburden stockpiles are 
subject to erosion caused by the large amounts of rainfall 
in the region (average annual rainfall is 200 inches).
The 
eroded stockpile material is eventually deposited in the 
PTFI Environmental Team members conduct water quality and 
biological monitoring activities in the Modified Ajkwa Deposition 
Area.
32
Freeport-McMoRan
tailings management area in the lowlands.
This additional 
material, while predicted in our environmental studies, 
influences both the amounts and timing of deposition of 
finer tailings material in the estuary.
These areas of natural 
succession are abundant and are routinely monitored to 
determine plant community composition and recolonization 
rates.
Areas now more than ten years removed from 
deposition are in secondary growth.
BIODIVERSITY
Freeport-McMoRan is committed to minimizing adverse 
environmental effects of our operations and supports 
biodiversity programs and scientific research.
In an effort to promote biodiversity, all operating 
mines implement Biodiversity Management Plans and Land 
Management Plans.
The Biodiversity Management Plans 
establish a process through which operations identify 
and prioritize voluntary biodiversity projects while Land 
Management Plans ensure that biodiversity considerations 
are incorporated into project planning and design in order 
to minimize adverse impacts to significant biodiversity 
resources where practicable.
We continued to participate in the Wildlife Habitat Council 
(WHC) Conservation Certification program, which formally 
recognizes meaningful biodiversity conservation and 
environmental education and community outreach 
programs.
As of December 2016, a total of 15 operating 
sites and facilities had received gold tier certification, 
which represents WHC’s highest level of recognition.
Safford 
received the Avian Project Award for their Burrowing Owl 
conservation program, which involved construction of 
artificial burrows, relocation of burrowing owls displaced by 
urban development, and regular monitoring to determine 
burrow occupancy and reproductive success.
Tyrone received the Grasslands Project 
Award for demonstrating exemplary management of 
reclaimed lands as wildlife habitat.
The reclamation design includes ecological benefits 
such as minimizing potential for soil erosion and releasing 
stormwater runoff into the natural drainage systems.
For instance, Cyprus Tohono 
Corporation (discontinued operation) staff shared lessons 
learned from their pollinator habitat enhancement and 
buffelgrass management efforts with over 300 Tohono 
O’odham Nation school students at Earth Day and youth 
engagement events.
Safford staff led and implemented a 
Conservation Day education event that reached over 200 
students from local schools.
Students conducted hands-on 
activities on myriad wildlife topics including bats, burrowing 
owls, bighorn sheep, pollinators and native fish.
The company continued to work with industry groups and 
closely monitor developing concepts, including no net loss 
and ecosystem services.
Freeport-McMoRan has assisted in publishing 
over 20 books that promote research and conservation of the flora 
and fauna inhabiting areas that surround our global operations.
Each 
year approximately 400 photos 
are submitted by employees, 
and the contest successfully 
engages our workforce on 
biodiversity appreciation and 
to promote habitats at our 
worldwide operations.
The calendar 
showcases efforts by member 
companies to enhance and 
conserve wildlife habitat on 
corporate lands.
Winning photos 
selected by the company’s 
Biodiversity Task Force are 
presented on this page.
