Signing of a Memorandum of Understanding for Biodiversity 
Conservation between PT Nusa Persada Resources (NPR) and the 
National Research and Innovation Agency (BRIN).
Handover of 630.26 Ha watershed rehabilitation area (DAS) from PT 
Jorong Barutama Greston (JBG)  to the Ministry of Environment and 
Forestry (KLHK) as completion of IPPKH holder obligation.
Handover of 2,962.84 Ha watershed rehabilitation area (DAS) from 
PT Indominco Mandiri (IMM) to the Ministry of Environment and 
Forestry (KLHK) as completion of IPPKH holder obligation.
President Joko Widodo visited the Mentawir Nursery built by ITM.
Handover of 2,030 Ha watershed rehabilitation area (DAS) from PT 
Trubaindo Coal Mining (TCM)  to the Ministry of Environment and 
Forestry (KLHK) as completion of IPPKH holder obligation.
Signing of the MoU on Biodiversity Studies and Conservation by ITM 
and the National Research and Innovation Agency (BRIN).
ITM participated in the G-20 Side Event exhibition as a series of 
Environment Deputies Meeting and Climate Change Sustainability 
Working Group and the Joint Environment and Climate Change 
Ministerial Meeting in Bali, Indonesia.
ITM gave a presentation on Commitments and Concrete Steps 
of the Energy Transition at the Indonesian Pavilion at COP27 in 
Sharm El-Sheikh, Egypt.
Dukungan ITM pada TPB direalisasikan melalui empat pilar 
strategis Tanggung Jawab Sosial Perusahaan (CSR): 
ITM applies the sustainability principles encompassing 
environmental, social, governance (ESG) and economic 
aspects to deliver long-term value for all stakeholders and 
support the achievement of the Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs).
We carry out initiatives that align with the 
vision, mission, and strategic plan.
ITM continues to 
increase its active role 
in maintaining and 
improving the quality 
of the environment.
ITM continues to strive to 
empower stakeholders, 
especially in increasing 
the quality of human 
capital, including in the 
fields of economy and 
entrepreneurship, health, 
infrastructure, and socio-
culture.
•	
Watershed rehabilitation management activities are adjusted 
to the Technical Design that has been determined by the 
Government.
•	
Ensuring fair opportunity and equal treatment for suppliers
•	
Applying the latest standards to accelerate the provision of 
goods and services related to operations
Progress 2022
•	 Evaluation was conducted for 47 contractors.
ITM carries out sustainability governance 
based on the integration of ESG strategies, 
and business ethics with emphasis on legal 
compliance.
[2-9, 2-13, 2-14, 2-27]
The governance structure consists of the Board of 
Directors who are responsible for the implementation of 
the Company’s operations, the Board of Commissioners who 
are responsible for overseeing and providing advice to the 
Directors in managing the Company, and the General Meeting 
of Shareholders (GMS), as the highest corporate body.
The sustainability governance encompasses environmental, 
social and governance (ESG) aspects, is the collective 
responsibility of the Board of Directors, under the 
coordination of the President Director as the highest-level 
officer.
The S&RM 
Directorate maintains inter-function synergy to realize the 
Company’s vision and mission.
To foster and raise employees’ 
awareness about sustainability 
through dissemination activities.
Ensure a harmonious relationship with 
stakeholders.
Manage standardization and impact, 
evaluate performance in the HSEC field.
Cooperate with the Risk Management 
Committee to identify and compile 
all significant risks on economic, 
environmental, and social 
performance, and determine risk 
mitigation measures.
Management System (approve 
sustainability policies and business 
processes).
Human Resources Development 
(provide knowledge and workshops 
related to sustainable development 
and CSR).
Preparation of Health Risk Assessment 
(HRA) at each mine site.
Formulation of ITM OHS Culture Strategy 
and Roadmap.
Renewal of Climate Change Strategy and 
Roadmap.
Development of Creating Shared Value 
(CSV) framework and mechanism .
Improve and develop process and 
mechanism for permit and license 
monitoring, especially for fulfilling 
forestry and HSEC obligations.
Rasio kompensasi total tahunan [2-21]
President Director, as the highest sustainability governance 
officer, has KPIs on ESG aspects, that have been approved 
by the Board of Commissioners.
ESG-related KPIs account 
for 30% of the total KPIs.
Senior executives’ KPIs 
are determined in alignment with the President Director’s 
KPIs.
Annually, the Board of Commissioners reviews the 
President Director’s performance, while the President 
Director evaluates the performance of senior executives.
Sustainability performance is discussed in the meetings 
between the Board of Directors and the Committee on 
Sustainable Development, Governance, Nomination and 
Compensation (SDGNCC), which is under the Board of 
Commissioners.
[2-26]
More detailed description of the topics below can be viewed 
in the ITM Annual Report 2022 which is complementary to 
this Sustainability Report 2022:
1.
Nomination and election of the highest governance 
body [2-10]
2.
The role of the highest governance body in overseeing 
the Company’s impact management [2-12]
4.
Performance evaluation of the highest governance body 
[2-18]
6.
The company has a Risk Management Policy and Manual that 
applies to all ITM business units and support functions.
All lines in the Company are 
responsible for risk management implementation, from 
the Board of Commissioners, Board of Directors, Audit and 
Risk Oversight Committee (AROC), Internal Audit, External 
Audit and Risk Management Committee, to operational level 
employees.
Risk mapping includes managing the negative 
impacts of climate change.
Monitor and calculate level of emissions.
Carry out carbon sequestration efforts through mine 
reclamation, biodiversity conservation, and watershed 
rehabilitation activities, in accordance with the Technical 
Plan that has been determined by the Government.
Regularly monitor water supply and reservoir conditions 
during the dry season.
Prepare reservoirs and other water supplies.
Improve the methods of calculating and forecasting in 
extreme weather conditions.
4.	 Review drainage system practices, evaluate and monitor 
water management performance during heavy rainfall 
conditions.
Ensure the Environmental Management System has been 
implemented in all aspects of the company’s operating 
activities.
Coordinate and collaborate with all parties related to 
geohydrology studies, to ensure that the mining process 
does not unfavourably affect groundwater sources and 
surface water conditions.
Realize the Community Empowerment Development 
(PPM) program which refers to SDGs and government 
regulations.
Formulate a PPM master plan based on social mapping 
and CD policies that have been consulted with the 
community, government, and ITM management.
ITM has a mechanism 
for submitting complaints, reports of violations of ethics, and 
stakeholder complaints, to support the communications.
Direct delivery during periodic meetings, such as town 
hall meetings, gatherings, GMS, public exposes, analyst 
meetings, Corporate Governance Day, and Quarterly 
Communication Day.
Complete risk management information is presented on the website and 
annual report, which is separate from this report, but complementary.
ITM consistently optimizes its business through technology 
application and development.
We recognize the importance 
of information technology (IT) management.
IT System Security
The Company has been facing challenges concerning the 
security of IT systems and digital data, such as ensuring 
the security of the Data Center platform and increasing 
competency in developing information systems.
In 2022, 
there was no data leaks and complaints from both customers 
and other external parties.
•	
Apply Multi Factor Authentication for all user accounts 
to provide multiple layers of security.
•	
Perform Vulnerability Assessment Penetration Testing 
(VAPT) on applications or public service systems.
The 
company does not tolerate all fraudulent practices, 
including bribery and corruption, which have an 
impact on integrity and credibility.
Resources and Evaluation:
The Corporate Secretary Department is responsible 
for the management of business ethics, including 
the enforcement of anti-corruption practices in 
the entire value chain.
Annually, the department 
conducts regular evaluation on the whistleblowing 
system as anti-corruption supporting tools.
[2-16]
Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption
The company has a code of conduct containing anti-bribery 
and anti-corruption policies and guidelines, which can be 
accessed at www.itmg.co.id.
ITM does not tolerate 
any form of fraud committed by the company’s internal and 
external parties involved in our value chain.
In 2022, the Company held anti-bribery 
and anti-corruption dissemination on December 13, which 
was attended by more than 50% of employees, including 
Directors and Commissioners.
[205-2][CSS-12.20.3]
We have not specifically mapped out the types of actions that 
are considered as corrupt behavior.
We 
select our business partners with the discretionary principle, 
including through due diligence on prospective business 
partners and signing integrity commitments.
[205-1, 205-3] 
[CSS-12.20.2, CSS-12.20.4]
During 2022, ITM was not involved in any form of political 
contribution.
ITM has a whistleblowing system (WBS) policy based on the company’s 
core values and in accordance with GCG principles and practices, to 
support legal and ethical violation reporting to internal authorities.
Transparency Center (TC) is monitored by the Transparency Committee in 
each work unit.
The Transparency Committee is chaired by the President 
Director and is responsible to the Board of Directors.
Each participant in the procurement tender is required 
to submit an integrity pact stating that there is no anti-trust 
or corrupt behavior in their business.
During the reporting period, ITM did not face any accusations 
of selling coal below market price to win the competition.
No confirmed legal cases over anti-competitive practices, 
anti-trust and monopolistic behavior have been filed against 
the Company or its employees.
To continue operating during the pandemic, ITM has activated 
the Incident Management Team (IMT) organization at the ITM 
level and the Emergency Management Team (EMT) at the 
subsidiary level.
Socioeconomic Compliance
ITM’s governance practices are closely related to compliance, 
including social responsibility compliance.
We are committed 
to managing a compliance culture that contributes to 
sound and responsible business practices to achieve the 
Company’s strategic goals and missions.
In addition, we have developed a licensing 
and liability monitoring system related to the Company’s 
business.
ITM’s commitment to implementing corporate social 
responsibility is our effort to deliver a positive impact on 
all stakeholders, especially the community.
The Department of 
Health, Safety, Environment, and Community Engagement 
and Development (HSEC) managed the SMK3L and is 
supported by the Department of Sustainable Development 
(SD) which is responsible for the management.
The duties 
and responsibilities of the HSEC and SD Departments 
are to ensure that no work accidents occur, maintain a 
comfortable, safe and controlled work environment, and 
ensure that environmental, social and governance (ESG) 
performance targets can be achieved as a sources for 
continuous improvement.
There were no significant 
environmental complaints received by the company.
Until 
the end of 2022, ITM has carried out environmental activities 
with a total cost of USD38.4 million which included the cost 
of managing voids.
PT Indo Tambangraya Megah Tbk | Laporan Keberlanjutan 2022
76
Sistem Manajemen Lingkungan dalam SMK3L [3-3]
Environmental Management System in SMK3L
Misi
Mission
Target
Strategi
Strategy
•	
Prevent, minimize 
and manage 
impacts on the 
environment.
•	
Strive for the 
preservation 
of natural 
resources through 
sustainable 
management.
•	 Compliance with quality standards of effluent.
•	 Conservation and preservation of 
environment.
•	 GHG emission intensity decrease by 5% in 
2025.
•	 HR capacity strengthening and enhancement.
•	 Increasing quality and validity of environmental data.
•	 Implementation of environmental management 
through a sustainability approach.
•	 Monitoring the implementation of management 
through internal audits such as Quality Assurance 
Review (QAR), Data Assurance, and externally such 
as surveillance audits.
Evaluation of energy efficiency and greenhouse gas emissions 
control is carried out through an assessment mechanism for 
periodic reporting to the authorities.
Energy and emission management is the responsibility 
of the Mine Operations Department with the support of the 
HSEC Department.
This plant generated up 
to 2,045 MWh of electricity in 2022.
The energy value was resulted 
from converting it into Gigajoule (GJ) units with a method 
that refers to the Energy Statistics Manual (International 
Energy Agency (IEA), 2015) and the GHG Protocol: Stationary 
Combustion Guidance.
[305-1]
Sistem Perhitungan Berdasarkan Sumber Emisi [305-1] [CSS-12.1.5]
Calculation System Based on Emission Sources 
Sumber Emisi
Emission Sources
Sistem Perhitungan
Calculation System
Bahan bakar biosolar, solar, dan bensin 
untuk kendaraan bergerak
Biodiesel, diesel fuel, and gasoline for 
operational vehicles
Sistem perhitungan beban emisi mengacu Permen LH No.
12 Tahun 2012
Emission load calculation system refers to Minister of Environment Regulation No.
This technology 
is integrated into the Mining Digital Center (MDC) 
system and is capable of saving 375.05 GJ.
•	
Optimization of the dewatering pump.
In general, energy intensity in 2022 was 0.59 GJ/ton FC, 
increased 11.3% compared to 2021.
The calculation includes emission sources from 
carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), 
and hydro-fluoro-carbon (HFCs), expressed in tons of CO2eq.
Total GHG emissions in 2022 was 1,540,370 tons CO2eq, 
decreased by 5.7% compared to 1,634,176 tons of CO2eq in 
2021.
This decrease was influenced by reduced consumption 
of fuel oil and fugitive emissions from coal expose as a result 
of post-mining process.
[305-5] [CSS-12.2.3]
In 2022, ITM has carried out separate calculations for 
emissions from ITM and business partners.
The accumulated 
emission calculation table is presented in a separate table 
for the year 2020-2022.
**Biogenic emission is from Fatty Acid Methyl Ester (FAME) which is part of renewable energy.
**Biogenic emission is from Fatty Acid Methyl Ester (FAME) which is part of renewable energy.
**Biogenic emission is from Fatty Acid Methyl Ester (FAME) which is part of renewable energy.
In 2022, ITM held a Natural Based Solution (NBS) training involving all employees at the site to increase 
their awareness and competence related to climate change.
ITM and its subsidiaries 
have not calculated the volume of ODS emissions released.
[305-6, 305-7]
Other emissions such as NOx, SOx, CO, and particulates 
are controlled by calculating and monitoring ambient air 
quality to meet the quality standard thresholds set by the 
government.
The results of calculating the emission load 
in 2022 reached 1,093 tons, which was a decrease by 10% 
compared to 2021.
We have 
implemented a hierarchy of mitigation measures for biodiversity management, especially rehabilitation activities as a form of our commitment 
to minimize environmental risks.
The Mine Rehabilitation Department ensures implementation, monitoring and reporting.
Evaluation of biodiversity management is carried 
out through evaluation and reporting mechanism periodically to the authorities.
Evaluation result in 2022 show the achievement of a 
biodiversity index in the range of 1.03 – 2.04.
Increased erosion rate, 
Increased sedimentation and 
decreased soil fertility.
•	 Pile topsoil in a safe place from erosion or mining activities.
•	 Plant cover crops to control the drift of topsoil by runoff and maintain soil 
fertility.
Changes in landscape, 
increased erosion rates and 
increased sedimentation.
•	 Carry out reclamation by considering the security and stability aspects of 
embankment and land revegetation in accordance with the reclamation 
plan.
•	 Watering the road on the mine site, hauling road, operating location of 
facilities, mining facilities and infrastructure.
Until 2022, a total of 70 Ha of arboretum area has been 
managed.
Activities at the arboretum during the reporting 
period included maintenance of trekking routes, biodiversity 
monitoring, tree adoption programs and tree labeling.
Maintain 20 boxes of kelulut honeybees in the Galam 
Conservation Forest with a production of 14.6 liters of honey
2.
Repair of Galam Track entrance in the Galam Conservation 
Forest
KTD Embalut
Hutan Pendidikan.
Conduct enrichment for 6,327 local plants in the education 
homogeneous forest 
2.
Plant replacement in the education forest with a total of 
15,209 trees
3.
Care for plants on an area of 72.5 Ha
5.
In 2022, ITM signed a memorandum of understanding with 
the National Research and Innovation Agency (BRIN) to 
support the innovation development in the company.
The study results identified that 
the forest area in PT Nusa Persada Resources’ concession 
is a high conservation value forest due to its high diversity 
index.
The activities at BEK site were follow-up 
activities from basic analysis and ethnobotany studies that 
had been carried out in the previous years.
These studies 
will focus on the diversity of local plants in Kalimantan as 
a potential for sustainable conservation and community 
empowerment strategies in BEK Concession Area.
The reclaimed 
area in 2022 reached 774.62 hectares, or 24.9% of the target 
at 619.99 hectares.
The accumulated area of reclamation 
land up to December 31, 2022 was 15,499.13 hectares.
[304-3]
The company carried out revegetation activities by planting 
496,652 trees in 2022, consisting of local plant species and 
plants with economic value.
The revegetation activities were 
conducted as an effort to manage disturbed land.
All ITM operational areas (100%) have post-mining plans.
In 
2022, ITM has completed TDM post-mining reclamation.
Until the end of 
the reporting period, the Company has realized post-mining 
costs of IDR23.5 billion.
[CSS-12.3.4, CSS-12.3.5]
Carbon Stock in the Post-mining Area
In 2022, we have calculated the carbon stock in PT EMB’s 
reclaimed land of 71,425.78 tons CO2 or the equivalent of 
262,132.59 tons CO2eq.
Achievements in TDM’s post-mining 
reclamation that have been completed this year, earned 
a reclamation success evaluation score of 95 points and 
an estimated carbon stock of 16,307.95 tons of CO2 or the 
equivalent of 59,850.17 tons of CO2.
Realisasi Kegiatan Rehabilitasi DAS (Ha)
Realization of Watershed Rehabilitation Activities (Ha)
Kinerja Rehabilitasi DAS
Watershed Rehabilitation Performance
Akumulasi s.d.
ITM is obliged to carry out rehabilitation on 48,010.94 
Hectares of watershed area until 2026.
In 2022, ITM has handed 
over the results of planting an area of 5,623 Ha of the 
watershed rehabilitation area to the government.
ITM prioritizes local species of plant and Multi Purpose Tree 
Species (MPTS) based on consultation with stakeholders.
In watershed rehabilitation activities, ITM participates in 
driving the local economy through the involvement of 14 
local contractors.
Coastal Area Preservation
Through its IMM subsidiary, the Company is making efforts to 
preserve coastal areas in Bontang Lestari District, Bontang 
City and Santan Marang Kayu District, Kutai Kartanegara 
Regency.
In its implementation, ITM has been working closely with the Ministry of 
Environment and Forestry (KLHK) and the Ministry of Public Works and 
Public Housing (PUPR).
This nursery plays a central role in realizing the 
development of a green national capital because it is designed as a 
provider of seeds for land rehabilitation and environmental restoration in 
the IKN area.
Waste from mining operations and supporting activities 
can pollute the environment if not managed properly.
ITM is committed to managing and treating waste to 
minimize the negative impacts that arise.
Waste management is evaluated through a mechanism of periodic reporting assessment to the authorities.
Waste management is the 
responsibility of the HSEC Department.
The management 
process is carried out from storage, transfer to final disposal, 
and minimizes disposal by saving resources.
Tumpahan Minyak [GRI 2016: 306-3][CSS-12.3.2] 
Oil Spill
Uraian
Description
2022
2021
2020
Kasus Tumpahan Minyak
Oil Spill Cases
0
0
0
Keterangan: 
Berdasarkan standar internal (tidak lebih dari 200 liter)
Notes:
Based on internal standards (no more than 200 liters)
Spill Prevention
ITM continuously attempts to minimize the potential 
hazardous liquid and oil spills which can pollute the 
environment.
Water and effluent management are evaluated through a 
mechanism of periodic reporting assessment to the authorities.
Water and effluent management are the responsibility of the 
HSE Department.
The company’s 
operating area in Kalimantan is included in the low risk water 
stress area based on the Aqueduct Risk Atlas.
There was 
no water withdrawal from water stress areas.
All effluent is discharged of in 
accordance with standards, regulations, and there is no 
noncompliance with the quality standards.
The monitoring of other sediment ponds is carried 
out manually by an accredited laboratory.
The total volume 
of treated effluent discharged into water bodies reached 
271,457,488 m3.
Note: 
•	 Calculation of water usage is carried out through the management of sediment ponds and monitoring of installed water meters.
36/2000
**N/A: Parameter Cd tidak dipersyaratkan pada Peraturan Daerah Kalimantan Timur No.02/2011
Note:
* Based on East Kalimantan Regional Regulation No.02/2011 and Governor of South Kalimantan No.36/2008.
[303-1, 303-2] 
[CSS-12.7.2, CSS-12.7.3]
The phenomenon of high precipitation can affect mining 
operations.
The company responds to this risk by making 
more optimized inlet and outlet drainage facilities, including 
adding water pumps to remove water from the pit more 
quickly.
During 2022, there were no incidents related to water 
and effluent management that affected the river ecosystem.
WATER RECYCLING AND REUSING
The company carries out water efficiency efforts through a 
recycling process to reuse the water.
We ensure that ITM’s transformation journey involves 
employees and the surrounding community.
ITM prioritizes the management of OHS aspects to achieve 
performance excellence through integrated control procedures 
and the provision of a decent, healthy, and safe work 
environment.
We implement ISO 45001:2018 OHS Management 
System, and ensure the physical and mental health, social and 
safety of employees as assets for the future of the company.
The results of the 
2022 performance evaluation showed that OHS management 
has been carried out properly.
OHS management is the 
responsibility of HSEC Department, led by the Head of HSE, 
supported by the Operations and HR functions.
Organizational & System Pillar
Maintain the implementation of SMK3L through OHS policies, 
HSE Management System, Contractor Management System, 
and Online Incident Report.
Employee Competence Pillar
Ensuring that the competence of each employee is adequate 
and meet the standards set by the Company and the 
Government.
In addition, the Company includes OHS 
clauses in the Collective Labor Agreement (CLA), which 
protects all (100%) employees.
[403-2] 
[CSS-12.14.3]
OHS RISK IDENTIFICATION AND 
MANAGEMENT
ITM maps and identifies high-risk jobs to prevent potential 
hazards to employee safety and health.
[403-2] [CSS-12.14.3]
We continuously maximize the OHS risk management 
evaluation and improvement to minimize the negative 
impacts.
The Company will investigate if there is a significant 
impact from a work accident, including a fatal incident, and 
submits a report to the authorities.
Application of HIRADC for coal loading and storage work, 
including supporting activities.
Determination of procedures for each heavy vehicle 
activity.
Implementation of health hazard measurements, such 
as vibration, heat, and ergonomics.
Achievement:
There were no significant incidents of dust exposure, which 
disrupted the company’s operations or caused stakeholder 
complaints.
Compliance with government regulations and requirements.
Blasting activities are carried out by personnel who have a 
Blasting Worker Card (KPP) and/or a Blasting Permit Card (KIM).
Achievement:
Zero incidents or accidents occurred during the blasting activity
Number of KIM holders 57
Number of KPP Madya holders 29
Number of KPP Pratama holders 198
URAIAN KEGIATAN DAN RISIKO
DESCRIPTION OF ACTIVITIES AND RISKS
Risiko berupa:
1.
Exposure to chemicals
2.
Incidents during transport of explosives
3.
Risks from flying rock and air blast
4.
Exposure to dust from blasting activities
5.
Conducting special health checks regularly in 
accordance with the requirements.
Achievement:
There were no significant complaints of radioactive 
exposure
Radioactive exposure risk and contamination during:
1.
Transport of radioactive material from bunker to drilling 
site
2.
The company ensured the employees’ health by 
regularly carrying out checks and providing health facilities 
at each site, in the form of clinics and health posts.
[403-3][CSS-12.14.4]
Until the end of 2022, there were 18,413 visits to on site 
clinic, with most complaints being ISPA.
Conducting an analysis of the results of clinic visits and 
medical check-ups.
Providing online or offline consultations to monitor health 
conditions.
Presenting health information and holding health talks 
related to health trends to increase employee awareness.
IMPROVING OHS CULTURE
ITM has formed an OHS Committee at the management 
level called the Occupational Safety & Health Advisory 
Committee (P2K3) and the Mining Safety Committee (KKP), 
led by the Head of Mine Engineering.
The membership 
of these committees consist of employees representing 
each department.
Carrying out campaigns and awareness drive concerning 
OHS topics
3.
Organizing the OHS Month program from January 12 to 
February 12 with the theme “Continuous Improvement 
of OHS Culture in Supporting Human Resource 
Performance in the Digital Era”
4.
Conducting Health Talks to spread information on 
occupational health and safety
5.
Conducting dissemination on the eradication of HIV/AIDS
6.
Carrying out Gotong Royong vaccination program for all 
employees and their families, with a 100% achievement
KESEHATAN KERJA  
Sepanjang tahun 2022 Perusahaan masih menjalankan 
protokol kesehatan kerja untuk penanganan pandemi 
COVID-19 yaitu vaksinasi tahap 3 (booster) kepada para 
pekerja.
The work accident rate is calculated based on 1,000,000 hours worked.
M/7/AS.02.02/V/2020 dan 
Surat Edaran PERDOKI No.
Referring to the Decree of the Director General of Mineral and Coal No.
185K/37.04/DJB/2019 and GRI provisions
2.
Employability Ratio: ITM postponed the MCU implementation due to the COVID-19 pandemic referring to the Circular Letter of the Minister of Manpower No.
M/7/
AS.02.02/V/2020 and PERDOKI Circular No.
The company 
conducts contractor annual evaluation in cross-functional 
collaboration, through the CMS-HSE mechanism.
[403-7] [CSS-12.14.8]
In 2022, a CMS-HSE assessment will be carried out on 
47 contractors.
This number is reduced by 4 contractors 
compared to 2021.
This is related to the transition of status 
to PT Kitadin – Embalut site from the operational stage to 
post-mining so that the 3 contractors involved in PT Kitadin – 
Embalut site is no longer operating.
In addition, 1 contractor 
from PT Jorong Barutama Greston did not continue the 
cooperation contract.
Of the 47 contractors assessed, 5 
contractors or 10.6% received a gold rating, which is the 
highest rating.
Contractors that receive a black rating will be excluded from 
the ITM vendor list.
ITM is committed to creating 
shared values and supporting human rights (HAM), both for 
employees, suppliers, and the community.
Resources and Evaluation:
The HR Department is responsible for HR management and 
development, including coordinating the management of 
employees in subsidiaries.
ITM has set a target for community development and 
empowerment (PPM) with 100% implementation achievement 
in all WIUP, 80% budget achievement with community 
satisfaction index indicators >76% and Social Return on 
Investment (SROI) >1.95.
The results of the evaluation in 
2022 showed the achievement of community development 
and empowerment was 100% in all WIUP and the budget 
achievement was 90% with an indicator of community 
satisfaction index of 85.03% and Social Return on Investment 
(SROI) of 5.04.
The PPM evaluation is carried out by measuring the impact 
of the sustainability aspect on 23 flagship programs 
in accordance with the Banpu Framework, including a 
sequence of inputs, activities (processes), outputs, outcomes, 
and impacts.
In 2022, we continued the maturity level assessment of 25 
flagship programs.
A total of 2 programs showed a mature 
level with a score range above 10 and 23 programs at the 
developed level, and 15 of them were above the average 
total maturity score.
HR management at ITM refers to the Human Resources 
(HR) Strategy, which aligns with the spirit of Banpu Heart.
The company internalizes the values of Banpu Heart for all 
employees through a series of training activities.
ITM carries 
out HR management with a strategic approach through an 
effective HR operating model, corporate culture, HR matrix 
analysis, and leadership readiness for key positions that 
meet the skill requirements.
HR Department is 
responsible to conduct the company’s efforts in diversity 
by ensuring all activities related to employment are in 
accordance with human rights principles that support 
diversity and equality.
ITM ensures that there is no forced 
labor and child labor in any of the company’s operations.
Until the end of 2022, the gender composition of 8 
members of the Board of Commissioners was 6 men or 
75% and 2 women or 25%.
[405-1][CSS-12.9.6]
The employment status that we disclosed in this report 
covering ITM employees at the Jakarta head office, 
Balikpapan office, and site.
The number of male 
employees is higher because majority of those interested 
in working in the mining sector are men, despite the career 
opportunities that we continuously offer for women.
In exercising employees’ 
rights and obligations at work, the management and 
employee representatives have prepared a Collective Labor 
Agreement (CLA) as a guideline.
The CLA protects all (100%) 
ITM employees and other workers who work in the mining 
business permit area (WIUP).
The lowest amount of remuneration received 
by employees is higher than the minimum wage in each work 
area.
The preparation and determination of remuneration 
for ITM employees refers to the Company’s budget, and to 
the applicable laws and regulations.
There is no 
difference in benefits for employees in the operational areas, 
which are considered more significant than other areas.
Female employees are entitled to 
receive maternity leave for 90 calendar days.
All (100%) employees have returned to work in their original 
position after the leave is over.
[404-2] [CSS-12.3.3]
Retirement Preparation
ITM prepares the employees who have entered retirement 
age of 55 years.
We enroll our 
employees into the PPUKP Financial Institution Pension 
Fund (DPLK) program.
The company pays the pension based 
on the Regulation of the Minister of Manpower (PMTK).
The 
company pays double the amount set by the PMTK for 
employees with normal retirement and triple the amount 
set in PMTK for employees in closed mines.
During the 
reporting period, ITM has earmarked USD30,700,039 for 
pension and other long-term benefits.
[201-3, 404-2] [CSS-12.3.3]
Management of Resources Related to Post-
mining
The company manages post-mining preparation impact 
on employees.
The improvement of technical 
and leadership capabilities are based on competency 
assessment.
This 
platform can centralize knowledge management which is accessible to all employees.
While the Management Development Program 
is provided for those at the higher levels.
Employees were classified as high potential 
and high performance received a special leadership 
program.
130
PT Indo Tambangraya Megah Tbk | Laporan Keberlanjutan 2022
Sustainability Competency Improvement
We maximize the sustainability performance achievement by 
involving employees, including directors and commissioners, 
in competency development activities related to sustainability 
principles.
COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
ITM carries out community development and empowerment 
by minimizing any negative impacts from the company’s 
operations.
The Company prioritizes 
the identified issues in the community empowerment 
activities and protecting the surrounding environment.
[413-1] [CSS-12.9.2]
Lokasi Pelibatan dan Pengembangan Masyarakat  [413-1] [CSS-12.9.2]
Community Involvement and Development Locations 
Site (Anak Perusahaan)
Site (Subsidiary)
Lokasi Kegiatan
Activity Location
Penerima Manfaat
Beneficiaries
Jumlah Desa
Total Villages
Jumlah Kecamatan
Total Districts
Indominco Mandiri
Kalimantan Timur:
Kabupaten Kutai Timur,
Kabupaten Kutai Kartanegara,
dan Kota Bontang
East Kalimantan:
East Kutai Regency,
Kutai Kartanegara Regency,
and Bontang City
11
3
Kitadin Embalut 
Kalimantan Timur:
Kabupaten Kutai
Kartanegara
East Kalimantan:
Kutai Kartanegara Regency
4
1
ITM carried out 227 PPM activities in all (100%) operating 
WIUP involving local communities.
The activities were carried 
out in 12 districts, covering 47 villages in the WIUP.
In 2022, ITM prepared the community for the post-mining 
independence by formulating 227 community empowerment 
agendas contained in the PPM Master Plan Document and 
Mine Closure Plan for each site.
Through the 
Emergency Response Team (ERT) which consists of ITM 
and its subsidiaries, ITM swiftly coordinates and prepares 
emergency response assistance to support humanitarian 
operations.
The total 
assistance provided for the victims of the Cianjur earthquake 
reached IDR200 million.
Penguatan dan pembinaan kelompok bank sampah oleh EMB dan IMM
7 Programs that provide benefits to 7,413 beneficiaries, such as:
1.
Conservation of mangrove and coral reef biodiversity by IMM
2.
Conservation of black orchid biodiversity by BEK
3.
Planting trees on environmental day in all ITM subsidiaries
4.
Waste management by JBG
5.
Bantuan honor untuk guru TK, SD, dan SMP oleh TCM
20 Programs that provide benefits to 7,786 beneficiaries, such as:
1.
Educational scholarships for elementary, junior high, senior high school and 
university students organized by all ITM subsidiaries.
Teacher competency training to improve the quality of teaching and learning 
organized by all ITM subsidiaries.
Development of adiwiyata schools to raise environmental awareness by IMM, 
TCM and BEK
4.
Community Learning Activity Center (PKBM) program organized by IMM
6.
Improved school infrastructure in the form of repairing school buildings, 
structuring the school environment, and supporting facilities by all ITM 
subsidiaries.
Development of clean water supply facility carried out by IMM, TCM, BEK.
Support for posyandu activities for infants, pregnant women, toddlers, and the 
elderly at all ITM's subsidiaries
3.
Free medical treatment and consultation held at all ITM's subsidiaries.
Development/procurement of health infrastructure facilities carried out by all ITM's 
subsidiaries.
Development of agriculture, fishery, and husbandry at all ITM’s subsidiaries.
Development of Integrated Farming System at all ITM’s subsidiaries.
Development of Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises at all ITM’s subsidiaries.
Perawatan tanaman
14 local contractors and 21 forest farmer groups have been involved in planting 
activities for watershed rehabilitation and support such as: 
1.
Plant care
138
PT Indo Tambangraya Megah Tbk | Laporan Keberlanjutan 2022
Community Empowerment Flagship Program 
in 2022 [413-1] [CSS-12.9.2]
BUMDes Institutional Development
In its effort to increase the community’s economic 
independence, ITM began synergizing with Village-
Owned Enterprises (BUMDes) in 2022.
In 2022, IMM partnered with BUMDes to 
manage community empowerment programs that have 
been implemented continuously, including BUMDes Madani 
Santan Tengah Village as the manager of the Clean Water 
Business and Village Transportation Business.
BUMDes 
Madani, through the clean water business, has served 700 
house connections in Santan Tengah Village.
Investment in capital and business support facilities
5.
This 
Kegiatan Pengembangan Kelembagaan BUMDes
BUMDes Institutional Development Activities
Ekonomi
Economy
Input
Total anggaran kerja sama IMM dengan BUMDes untuk proyek konstruksi/infrastruktur (2018-
2022): Rp5.799.568.240
Total budget for IMM cooperation with BUMDes for construction/infrastructure projects (2018-
2022): Rp5,799,568,240
Output
Output
Unit usaha BUMDes pada desa binaan beroperasi
The operation of BUMDes business unit in the fostered village 
Hasil
Outcome
1.
Increasing employment opportunities for rural communities
Dampak
Impact
Peningkatan pendapatan asli desa (PAD)
Pengurangan pengangguran masyarakat desa
Increase in village generated revenues (PAD)
Reducing unemployment in rural communities
Sosial
Social
Input
1.
Establishment and institutional strengthening of BUMDes
2.
Increasing the capacity of BUMDes administrators
Output
1.
BUMDes in assisted villages can operate continuously both as an institution and as a business 
unit
Dampak
Impact
1.
Increasing the welfare of village communities
2.
It increased the monthly 
income of group members between 50% to 100%.
Formation and strengthening of farmer groups
2.
Construction of warehouses and workshop facilities
3.
Training on organic fertilizer production, packaging, storage, and marketing
5.
Formation of 1 farmer group that produces bokashi organic fertilizer continuously with a total 
production of 1,861 tons (2017-2022)
2.
Development of warehouse and workshop facilities
3.
Availability of supporting facilities for the bokashi organic fertilizer production
Hasil
Outcome
1.
Increase in farmer group’s income > RP2.7 billion (2010 – 2022).
Increased welfare of breeders from 7 cattle breeder groups in 4 fostered villages
2.
Reducing unemployment in Karang Rejo village community
Lingkungan
Environment
Input
Limbah kotoran sapi sebagai bahan baku pupuk organic
Cow manure waste as a raw material for organic fertilizer
Output
Pengolahan limbah kotoran sapi menjadi 1.861 ton pupuk organic
Processing cow manure into 1,861 tons of organic fertilizer
Hasil
Outcome
1.
Pemanfaatan pupuk organik bokashi pada lahan reklamasi JBG
1.	 cow manure problems in Karang Rejo Village can be resolved
2.
Improving the quality of the environment in Karang Rejo Village
2.
Increased welfare of the community, especially members of farmer groups
2.
In 2022, PT Kitadin Embalut has entered the 
post-mining period.
Building cattle barns and supporting facilities
Ekonomi
Economy
Input
Total anggaran CD 2022: Rp155.419.250
Total CD budget 2022: Rp155,419,250
Output
Output
1.
The total cattle population of 300 heads
2.
Construction of barns for cattle breeding
3.
Utilization of cow manure for fertilizer at IFS
Hasil
Outcome
1.
Increased income for 45 members of 7 breeder groups
2.
Reducing the fertilizer cost at IFS of Rp500,000,000/month
Dampak
Impact
1.
Increased welfare of breeders from 7 cattle breeder groups in 4 fostered villages
2.
The community, especially youth of productive age and 
the local government, have been benefited from the LPK’s 
presence.
The benefits provided 
by LPK Media Citra Mandiri earned appreciation in Silver 
Category from the Ministry of Village, Development of 
Disadvantaged Regions, and Transmigration.
Development of Facilities and Infrastructure of LPK Citra Mandiri.
Honorarium Assistance for Instructors of LPK Citra Mandiri.
Computer training for teachers, students, employees and village officials.
Ekonomi
Economy
Input
Total Bantuan untuk LPK Media Citra Mandiri periode 2017-2022 Rp302.700.000
Total Assistance for LPK Media Citra Mandiri in the 2017-2022 period Rp302,700,000.
Improving teaching and learning.
Easy access for students to gain knowledge.
Improving the quality of education.
As a result 
from the coaching provided, the Basapri Cooperative won 
a silver category award in the CSR and Sustainable Village 
Development (PDB) award, which was organized by the 
Ministry of Village, Development of Disadvantaged Regions, 
and Transmigration in collaboration with the Indonesian 
Social Sustainability Forum (ISSF).
Digitalization of the Village Government’s the reporting system.
More orderly and systematic reporting system.
136 indigenous peoples and village government members received computer training.
Residents’ increased knowledge about computers.
Facilitate the legality of the Basapri Cooperative.
Assistance with infrastructure, facilities, and infrastructure to support cooperative activities.
Cooperative Management Training, Bookkeeping and Business Insights.
Provision of venture capital in the form of plantation production facilities (seeds, fertilizers, and herbicides).
Expansion and business integration in the form of laying hens farm in 2022.
Ekonomi
Economy
Input
Total biaya produksi dan promosi sejumlah Rp461.725.000
Total production and promotion costs amounted to Rp461,725,000
Output
1.
Formation of a Cooperative with a legal entity.
The cooperative has knowledge on Cooperative management, bookkeeping and business 
insight.
Improving the community's economy through cooperatives.
Improving the standard of living of 74 cooperative members.
Increasing the role of women in the family.
Provision of mangrove seedlings from farmer groups
4.
Planted mangroves as a means of pollution control
3.
Community awareness in the management of mangrove ecosystems
2.
The mangrove rehabilitation program earned local and national awards
trees.
Community 
representation in this forum includes religious leaders, youth, 
Family Welfare Development (PKK) cadres, and village 
officials.
In addition, ITM 
conducted a Community Satisfaction Index (CSI) survey to 
find out the performance of the empowerment program 
provided.
The CSI survey in 2022 increased to 85%.
HUMAN RIGHTS PRACTICE AND LOCAL
COMMUNITIES
The company conducts risk analysis in each community 
empowerment program plan.
Some of our business operations are located close to local 
communities and indigenous peoples.
[410-1] [CSS-12.12.2]
community with its programs that support cultural 
preservation and drive the community’s economy.
During 
2022, there were no incidents or violations involving the 
rights of indigenous peoples.
[411-1][CSS-12.11.2]
ITM ensures responsible security practices and in accordance 
with human rights principles.
Activities related to security are 
carried out by members of the security unit (security guard) 
in coordination with the local police.
In addition, the training 
provided to security personnel includes an understanding 
of human rights, including community rights.
The Operations, Finance, Sales & Logistics functions are 
responsible for managing economic performance and supply 
chain.
Economic performance is evaluated through mechanism 
of periodic reports and achievement of key performance 
indicators (KPI) targets for the Board of Directors and Board 
of Commissioners.
The results of the 2022 evaluation showed 
that the economic performance achievements met the targets.
Target dan Realisasi Produksi dan Penjualan Batubara (Juta Ton) 
Target and Realization of Coal Production and Sales (Milion Tons)
Uraian
Description
2022
Target
Target
Realisasi
Realization
Persentase (%)
Percentage
Produksi
Production
17.5 - 18.8
16.6
94.9
Penjualan
Sales
20.5 - 21.5
18.9
92.2
Realisasi Penjualan Batubara 
Coal Sales Realization
Pelanggan
Customer
2022
2021
2020
Juta Ton
Million Tons
%
Juta Ton
Million Tons
%
Juta Ton
Million Tons
%
Domestik
Domestic
4.2
22.2
4.7
23.5
3.8
17.9
Ekspor
Export
14.7
77.8
15.4
76.5
17.4
82.1
Jumlah
Total
18.9
100.0
20.1
100.0
21.2
100.0
ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
In 2022, ITM managed to meet the economic performance 
targets, supported by the high increase in coal prices in the 
global market.
With this quality, the Company can reach a wider 
market, including the premium markets to generate higher 
revenue margins.
We reach markets that adopt technology to process high-
calorie coal, such as Japan.
ITM’s 
consolidated coal sales to the domestic market amounted 
to 4.2 million tons or 23% of the production target which 
was calculated based on the work plan and budget (RKAB).
The amount has not reached the DMO target threshold of 
25% due to uncertain weather condition.
Nilai Ekonomi yang Dihasilkan dan Didistribusikan (Ribu USD) [201-1][12.21.2]
Economic Value Generated and Distributed (Thousand USD)
Nilai Ekonomi yang Dihasilkan
Economic Value Generated
2022
2021
2020
Pendapatan Bersih
Net Revenues
3,636,213
2,076,813
1,185,336
Pendapatan Bunga Bank dan Deposito
Income from Bank Interest and Deposits
8,795
2,906
2,878
Pendapatan/(Pengeluaran) Selisih Kurs
Foreign Exchange Income/(Expenses)
(31,694)
(1,498)
(4,042)
Pendapatan/(Pengeluaran) Lain-lain
Other Income/(Expenses)
(115,025)
(171,501)
(30,194)
Nilai Ekonomi yang Dihasilkan
Economic Value Generated
3,498,289
1,906,720
1,153,978
During the reporting period, ITM managed to achieve total 
net revenues of USD 3,636.2 million, an increase of 75% 
from 2021.
The net profit was recorded at USD 1,199.3 million, 
increased by 152% from the previous year.
The Company’s total operating income from sales of coal 
products and other income, such as bank interest and 
deposits.
Until the end of 2022, ITM did not receive financial 
assistance from the Government.
In 2022, the 
Company realized PNBP was USD 542 million.
High precipitation during 2022 disrupted the production 
process and product delivery.
[201-2]
The financial data in this report has been audited by an 
independent public accountant.
The Company’s financial 
information for the reporting period can be viewed in full 
at www.itmg.co.id.
Note: Source Audited Consolidated Profit and Loss Statements.
Economic performance covers all subsidiaries; IMM, TCM, BEK, KTD, JBG, TIS, ITMI, IBU, IEU, IBP, TRUST, GEM, 
NPR, SME, EBP, GPK, CPI, IHP.
In 2022, ITM conducted a customer satisfaction survey 
to find out their perception of the Company’s quality of 
products and services.
R E S P O N S I B L E  S U P P LY  C H A I N 
MANAGEMENT
In addition to implementing responsible operations, ITM 
assesses environment, social and governance (ESG) 
performance in its relations with suppliers.
Supply chain 
management is carried out by applying Supplier Code of 
Conduct to all suppliers.
We encourage suppliers 
to pay attention to occupational health and, not to employ 
child labor, and to avoid forced labor.
