The 
Sustainability Report 2014 is a continuation of the 
Sustainability Report 2013, published on November 25, 
2014.
[G4-28, G4-17]
The level of compliance with material aspects of this 
report is In Accordance Core.
We define material aspects as important issues that 
significantly affect and influence stakeholders in making 
decisions.
Materiality Aspects Identification Process [G4-
18]
Material aspects and boundaries of this report 
were determined based on the results of Focus 
Group Discussion (FGD) held on August 27, 2014 in 
Sorowako, South Sulawesi.
The FGD focused on identifying sustainability context 
as basis to determine material aspect priorities.
Determination of the report content was based on 
the principle of Stakeholders Inclusiveness, Materiality, 
Sustainability Context and Completeness.
Report Content Determination Process
Report content determination of is preceded by the 
identification of sustainability issues and defining 
material aspects.
The 
priorities are determined through FGD.
The validation process aims 
to ensure that the report contains balanced contents 
between positive and negative performances.
The Board 
of Directors approves the validation as the Company’s 
governance officials responsible for the preparation and 
publication of this report.
[G4-48]
The fourth step is to review the previous year’s 
report by including suggestions from stakeholders 
over the previous year’s report.
This cycle takes place during the 
reporting period by including stakeholder engagement.
B-8594/MENLH/09/2011 and Minister of the Environment 
Decree No.13 of 1995.
The production volume in 2014 was the highest annual 
production volume in the Company’s history.
Total production of nickel in matte in 2014 was 78,726 
metric tons, up 4% compared to 2013 at 75,802 
metric tons.
Production in 2014 reached 98.8% of total 
production target at 79,691 metric tons.
The higher production caused the increase in sales 
volume of nickel in matte.
Total sales of nickel in matte 
in 2014 reached 79,477 metric tons, up 4% compared to 
77,198 metric tons in 2013.
The improved nickel prices have caused the increase in 
revenue from nickel in matte sales.
[G4-EC2, G4-EN22]
It spurs the maintained growth of the Company.
In terms of production, the weather and climate 
change have been our great concern.
The high rainfall 
in Sorowako region caused disruptions to production 
process.
Profit was 53% higher than our target, driven by the 
higher nickel price and lower production costs.
4 of 2009 on Mineral and Coal Mining.
By the end of the 
reporting period, the estimated proven reserves were 
108 million dry metric tons (DMT) with 1.80% nickel 
content.
[G4-EN1]
Availability of potential nickel ore reserves to guarantee 
the availability of raw material supply, which is lateritic 
nickel ore originated from mineral extraction.
During 
2014, total raw material of lateritic nickel ores reached 
13,557,891 wet metric tons (WMT).
The volume increased 
4% compared to 13,070,625 WMT in 2013.
The land acquisition plan in Onepute Jaya Village 
was part of preparation for construction of mining haul 
road (MHR) and public road that connect Bahodopi and 
Sorowako.
These activities include land 
clearing in Bahomatefe Village, East Bungku District 
and geotechnical study.
The fieldwork was part of the 
preparation for construction of nickel processing plant 
and its supporting facilities in Bahodopi Block.
They consisted of: [G4-LA5]
• Committee overseeing occupational safety with 86 
members;
• Committee overseeing occupational health with 93 
members.
Pratama Award from the Ministry of Energy and 
Mineral Resources.
The award was presented on 
September 16, 2014, for the occupational health and 
safety (K3) management of mining in the period of 
2013.
• The 2nd National Emergency Resuscitation 
Competition, which was held in Malang, East 
Java, on December 5 to 6 2014.
CSMS dissemination and safety training are regularly 
carried out.
We are 
committed to protecting the environment and minimize 
negative potential of lateritic nickel ore mining activity 
and production of nickel in matte, or other associated 
activities.
We have started AMDAL preparation 
on plans to increase production capacity of nickel in East 
Luwu Regency, South Sulawesi, and the construction 
of a nickel plant in Morowali Regency, Central Sulawesi.
AMDAL document was prepared based on the 
Regulation of the Minister of the Environment No.5 of 
2012, and No.
17 of 2012, which stipulate the preparation 
of AMDAL and Environmental Permit.
[G4-EN31]
Other strategic initiatives conducted by the Company 
during 2014 to control environmental impacts are: [G4-
EN27]
1.
Construction of the wastewater treatment system 
with LGS technology (lamella gravity settlers) to 
reduce the impact of the wastewater rate and control 
the runoff water quality that is discharged into Lake 
Matano.
The 
results showed that the LGS installation managed to 
reduce suspended solids from more than 4,000 mg/l 
to below 10 mg/l.
Efficiency has lowered the Company’s cost of revenue in 
2014 by 6% than in 2013.
ENERGY USAGE
In line with increased production of nickel in matte 
and nickel ore mining, total energy consumption in 
2014 increased compared to 2013.
The amount of energy 
intensity in 2014 was 121.94 GJ/ton, an increase over 
120.98 GJ/ton in 2013.
[G4-EN3, G4-EN4]
Kapasitas Daya PLTA [G4-EN3, G4-EN4]
Power Capacity of Hydroelectric Power Plant
No.
The amount of fuel and 
lubricants in the production process reached 37% of total 
cost of production.
We responded to this condition by continuing to 
improve efficiency in order to reduce the costs of 
fuel and lubricants.
The Company’s HSFO prices are 
based on Platts index in Singapore.
Measurements are carried out by accredited external 
laboratories.
All parameters are measured based on 
Ministry of the Environment Decree No.
13 of 1995, 
and Ministry of the Environment Circular No.
Monitoring and measurement results are 
reported regularly to the Government through 
reports of Environmental Management Plan (RKL) and 
Environmental Monitoring Plan (RPL).
This was due to increased nickel 
production in 2014 of 2,924 tons.
Wastewater from the 
mine containing Cr6+ concentration is potentially 
carried by runoff water.
This negative impact is 
mitigated by controlling solids content of wastewater in 
sedimentation pond before being recirculated into the 
water body.
[G4-EN26]
We have built sedimentation ponds with capacity of 
3.5 million m3 to settle dissolved solids in it, by adding 
ferrous sulfate monohydrate.
Supply of the raw material is 
provided by the contractors.
Piled in disposal pit, in the vicinity of mining 
operations;
2.
Reused as backfilling material, to fill the post-mining 
land during reclamation process.
Lake Malili system is considered as a very important lake 
system because it is an ancient lake and has a very high 
level of endemism.
The water quality in lake Malili system is deemed as the 
cleanest in the world.
[G4-EN22, G4-EN23]
Other wastes are generated from the production of 
nickel in matte.
Some of them contain hazardous and 
toxic materials (B3).
Closing the spill spread to prevent the contamination 
due to the oil spills
2.
Cleaning the spill from Mangkassa port to other 
locations that were indicated to be contaminated by 
oil spill.
Checking the contaminated water quality regularly.
Entering 2014, We realized the Integrated Community 
Development Program (‘PPTM’), which was part of the 
Stakeholder Management Strategy and Social Management 
Plan (SMP) for 2013 to 2017.
They are shareholders, local 
communities, governments, business and professional 
groups, academics and observers, mass media, and 
community leaders.
[G4-24, G4-25]
This section will only describe matters relating to the 
local communities and local governments.
Description 
on the approach to other stakeholders and material 
subjects are described in the Appendix of this report.
[G4-SO1]
INTEGRATED COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT 
PROGRAM
Entering 2014, We realized the Integrated Community 
Development Program (ICDP), which was part of 
the Stakeholder Management Strategy and Social 
Management Plan (SMP) for 2013 to 2017.
[DMA]
PTPM was officially launched on January 21, 2014, at 
the hall of Executive Board for Agriculture, Fisheries and 
Forestry Extension (BP4K), Malili, East Luwu Regency.
PTPM implementation is expected to support East 
Luwu Regency Government to establish East Luwu as 
agro-industry regency, and improve the welfare of local 
communities.
INDEPENDENT VILLAGE PARTNERSHIP 
PROGRAM
The Independent Village Partnership Program (PMDM) is 
implemented with community empowerment approach 
under principles of participatory, independence, 
accountability, integration and support for the poor and 
vulnerable groups.
We supported efforts 
in welfare and quality of life improvement through 
sustainable development framework.
Dissemination on oral and dental health, dental 
examination and measurement of nutritional status 
for 1,275 elementary school students in Malili and 
Towuti districts.
The examination was carried out by 55 
members of the joint team of the Faculty of Medicine, 
Faculty of Dentistry, and Faculty of Public Health, 
University of Hasanuddin (UNHAS), Makassar.
Seminar on mother and child health with the theme: 
Preserving 1,000 Early Days of Life.
The seminar 
was attended by approximately 500 participants 
including village midwives, village health volunteers, 
representatives of community health centers and 
nurses in East Luwu, E. Luwu PKK staff, E. Luwu SKPD 
representatives, district heads, and representatives of 
other women’s organizations.
Approximately 500 elementary school students 
participating in the dissemination of eye health and 
eye disorder examination in Wasuponda District.
// Laporan Keberlanjutan 2014
64
KAMI TERUS MENJAGA 
PERTUMBUHAN
We Maintain Growth
OPERASIONAL KAMI KIAN EFISIEN 
DAN RAMAH LINGKUNGAN
Our Operations More Efficient and 
Environmentally Friendly
MENGELOLA KEBERLANJUTAN 
BERSAMA MASYARAKAT
Managing Sustainability with 
Community 
MENGELOLA MARGIN MENJAGA 
KESINAMBUNGAN
Managing Margin Maintaining 
Continuity
TATA KELOLA KEBERLANJUTAN
Sustainability Governance
4.
The activities were 
supported by specialists from Yayasan Axis Medika 
Peduli.
The books of 
folktales that have been published:
a.	 Princess Loeha and her Magic Umbrella (2008);
b.	 Tikumba-kumba rock and other stories from Tana 
Luwu (2014);
c.	 Love Voyage of Sawerigading and Other Folkltales of 
Tana Luwu (2014).
The competition was 
expected to boost achievements of sports in East Luwu 
Regency during the Regional Sports Week event.
By the end of 2014, a total of 500 farmers have been 
involved in learning and training programs at CLC, with 
activities carried out include:
1.
Farmer Field School (FFS) of Pepper Farming
Each FFS consists of 20-30 farmers who will conduct 
direct practice independently.
The distributed plants 
consisted of 500 plants by the age of 3-18 months, 
500 plants aged 19 months to 4 years and 500 plants 
aged 5 years and above.
Farmer Field School (FFS) of Cocoa Farming
Each FFS consists of 20-30 farmers who will conduct 
direct practice independently.
The number of 
distributed plants was 500 plants at productive age.
Farmer Field School (FFS) of Rice Farming
Each FFS consists of 20-30 farmers with land area of 
0.5 hectares and will conduct practice in the farmers’ 
own fields with an area of 10 ha.
Formulation of Replication Follow-up Plan on results 
of cultivation technology applied research that has 
been jointly tested.
•	 Public Facility and Disaster Relief Sector 
Programs/activities of public facilities construction and 
disaster relief implemented in 2014 include: [G4-EC7]
1.
Handover of infrastructure assistance worth 
about IDR3 billion to the community through 
Kolaka Regency Government, Southeast Sulawesi.
The handover was conducted in Lamedai 
Village, Tangketada District, Kolaka Regency.
The infrastructure assistance covered irrigation 
infrastructure, water divider dams, bridges of 
farm-to-market roads, Okooko river normalization, 
and strengthening of Okooko river cliff with 
gabion installation.
Kolaka Regency 
Government designated Lamedai village as as rice 
development area with a planned area of about 1,500 
hectares.
Sending ERG (Emergency Response Group) team to 
assist the evacuation and treatment of post-flood 
and landslide victims in Manado, North Sulawesi.
The team was dispatched under the coordination and 
request of National Disaster Management Agency 
(‘BNPB’) and the Ministry of Energy and Mineral 
Resources.
By promoting peaceful dialogue, We are responding 
to each of the developing dynamics in community.
Mutually beneficial solution was made through 
community engaggement in bottom up development 
plan forum (Musrenbang).
Through this program, the Company reorganized 
the supply chain and forms of goods and services 
procurement.
The purpose of PNI program is to develop a 
roadmap up to 2015, to minimize the impact of the 
abolition of the master list facility and integrate it with all 
policies on procurement strategies.
We are committed to developing local companies in the 
area of our operations, by implementing Local Business 
Initiative (LBI) that was started in 2010.
By the end of the reporting period, 
an estimated of 3,755 workers were employed by the 
suppliers.
We 
impose sanctions against supplier companies that fail to 
comply with labor regulations.
[G4-11]
In 2014 the Company and the labor unions have agreed 
on the 16th CLA.
During 
2014, there were 85 grievances categorized as labor 
disputes and 75 of them or 92% have been properly 
resolved in accordance with provisions in the CLA.
The employees’ productivity is calculated based on 
metric tons of nickel production against the number of 
employees.
Currently 
We have reliable and technically certified IT personnel, 
at the elementary, intermediate and advanced levels.
The LSP 
has been accredited by the National Professional 
Certification Board (BNSP) and is aimed at developing the 
competencies of employees.
We have had 
a performance evaluation mechanism, based on the 
achievement of targets by each employee, including 
production, occupational safety, cost, management and 
departmental initiatives.
The assessment conducted in the period of 2013-2014 
found only 0.14% of employees who underperformed.
They 
were in the form of dividend payments, taxes, royalties 
and other payments.
40 of 2007 on Limited Liability 
Companies, Law No.
8 of 1995 on the Capital Market, Law 
No.
4 of 2009 on Mineral and Coal, and other regulations.
ASEAN Corporate Governance Scorecard of the 
ASEAN Capital Market Forum, the World Bank, and 
OECD Principles;
2.
Some of them are the Anti-Corruption 
Policy, Code of Ethics and Conduct, Procurement Norms 
and Whistleblower system.
40 of 2007 on Limited Liability 
Company, the Company’s governance body structure 
consists of corporate organs: the General Meeting of 
Shareholders (GMS), the Board of Commissioners and 
Board of Directors.
GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS 
GMS is the highest corporate organ in the governance 
structure of the Company.
GMS comprises Annual 
GMS and Extraordinary GMS.
ANNUAL GMS
The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders 2014 
(AGMS 2014) was held on April 1, 2014, at the Financial 
Hall Graha Niaga, Jalan Sudirman, Jakarta, Indonesia.
The AGMS 2014 was presided by the President 
Commissioner appointed by the meeting organizer.
EGMS was presided by Vice 
President Commissioner.
The EGMS 2014 was attended by shareholders or their 
representatives representing 84.25% of the total issued 
shares in the Company with valid voting rights, which 
met the quorum required by the Articles of Association 
of the Company.
[G4-39]
The Board of Commissioners’ members are elected and 
nominated by majority shareholders in the GMS for 
approval and appointment.
[G4-34]
Extraordinary GMS on September 25, 2014 in Jakarta 
has approved and appointed Jennifer Maki as 
President Commissioner.
In carrying out its duties and responsibilities of the 
Board of Commissioners is assisted by the Audit 
Committee and Governance Committee.
Description 
and explanation of the duties and responsibilities of 
the Board of Commissioners, Audit Committee and 
Governance Committee are presented in the Annual 
Report 2014, which is prepared separately from this 
report.
The 
document packages of orientation materials were 
prepared by Corporate Secretary, in software and print.
[G4-35, G4-36, G4-37]
Members of the Board of Directors are nominated by 
majority shareholders and approved in the GMS.
The assessment is performed by taking 
into account the achievement of each target.
Each 
member of the Board of Directors is responsible to 
provide evidence of target achievement to the Board 
of Commissioners.
[G4-41]
Assessment of Board of Directors is performed 
by comparing target and the Company’s actual 
achievement.
The Company’s targets are made in some 
categories, including:
• Occupational safety and health of employees;
• The Company’s strategy;
• Production;
• Cost management;
• CSR and sustainable development; and
• Human Resources.
Board of Commissioners’ Charter and Board of Directors’ 
Charter are based on Law No.
Remuneration determination for 
Independent Commissioners and the Board of Directors 
is the shareholders’ authority in the GMS by taking 
into account the recommendation from Governance 
Committee and the market standard.
WBS is intended both for the Company’s 
governance officers, employees and suppliers/business 
partners.
In 2014, there was no report submitted 
through whistleblowing system.
The FIRM 
application involves the cooperation of all parties in 
the Company’s management, including the Board 
of Directors, which is implemented through annual 
workshop on Enterprise Risk Assessment (ERA).
The Bowtie Analysis process identifies the residual risk 
value, which is an indicator of risk event significance.
[G4-42]
The Company held a General Induction Program (GIP) 
for newly appointed members of the Board of Directors.
Conference on mining and commodities;
3.
Conferences and seminars on finance, such as 
treasury and banking;
4.	 International conference on natural resources;
5.
Public lecture and certified coach;
6.
Implementation of the CSR program and the collaboration with the related regional apparatus 
work unit (SKPD);
2.
Facilitation and mediation in settling some of the ezisting problems.
Engagement through:
1.
Discussions to improve the mechanisms in implementing the comdev program;
2.
Improving the procedure of recruiting manpower and involving local contractors.
Lampiran
Appendix
// Laporan Keberlanjutan 2014
100
KAMI TERUS MENJAGA 
PERTUMBUHAN
We Maintain Growth
OPERASIONAL KAMI KIAN EFISIEN 
DAN RAMAH LINGKUNGAN
Our Operations More Efficient and 
Environmentally Friendly
MENGELOLA KEBERLANJUTAN 
BERSAMA MASYARAKAT
Managing Sustainability with 
Community 
MENGELOLA MARGIN MENJAGA 
KESINAMBUNGAN
Managing Margin Maintaining 
Continuity
TATA KELOLA KEBERLANJUTAN
Sustainability Governance
PEMANGKU KEPENTINGAN
STAKEHOLDERS
PENDEKATAN
APPROACHES
Bisnis dan Profesional
Businesses and Professionals
Pelibatan melalui:
1.
Engagement through:
1.
Discussion on strategic management of the comdev program;
3.
Settling the issue of air and water contamination.
Empowerment, especially to support preservation of the social cultural aspects of the local 
community.
Engagement and empowerment, to support:
1.
Implementation of the comdev program, especially information on development, mechanisms, 
result of monitoring and evaluation;
2.
Active involvement in holding the cultural events in East Luwu and Sorowako.
