The Company 
continues to carry out operations and production activities, with strict health protocols.
The Sustainability Goals in the 2030 Agenda support 
the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs).
Reduce greenhouse gas emissions 
aligned with the Paris Agreement 
and be carbon neutral by 2050.
Our Strategy
Our strategic pillars contribute to achieving 
our mission: to transform natural resources into 
prosperity and sustainable development.
Penerapan komitmen pada 
keberlanjutan disinergikan dengan pengelolaan tambang 
berkelanjutan, sesuai kerangka kerja International 
Council on Mining and Metals.
Build a positive social, economic and 
environmental legacy where we operate.
2030 Commitments
Be a sustainable operator, local development catalyst, and 
global sustainability agent.
Our global sustainability goals are 
in line with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) of the 
United Nations 2030 Agenda.
Minimize the impact of COVID-19 
at the regional level.
Clean energy optimization, 
power stabilization, waste heat 
utilization, and fuel shift.
Strictly implement health protocols 
and provide assistance to both 
employees and the public to reduce 
the spread of the coronavirus.
Strictly implement health protocols, 
provide assistance to both 
employees and the public, and 
work closely with stakeholders to 
reduce the spread of COVID-19.
Apply ethical business practices 
and sound systems of corporate 
governance and transparency to 
support sustainable development.
Integrate sustainable 
development in corporate 
strategy and decision-making 
processes.
Respect human rights and the 
interests, cultures, customs and values 
of employees and communities 
affected by our activities.
Implement effective risk-
management strategies and systems 
based on sound science and taking 
into account stakeholder risk 
perceptions.
Pursue continual improvement 
in health and safety 
performance with the ultimate 
goal of zero harm.
Pursue continual improvement in social 
performance and contribute to the social, 
economic and institutional development 
of host countries and communities.
Proactively engage key stakeholders in sustainable 
development challenges and opportunities in an open and 
transparent manner.
Effectively report and independently 
verify progress and performance.
We do not employ child labor or forced labor.
During 2020 
there were no discriminatory practices against employees.
All (100%) employees are protected by a collective labor 
agreement (PKB) in accordance with Law No.13 of 2003 
concerning Manpower and Law No.11 of 2020 on Job 
Creation.
We conduct evaluations of suppliers/contractors, 
including matters related to compliance with the Labor Law 
and respect for human rights (HAM).
The Company is targeting a gradual increase of 100% in the 
number of female employees.
During the reporting period, 
the number of female employees was targeted to increase 
by 12%, compared to 2019.
The increase in the number 
of female employees in 2020 was 11 or 4.5%, bringing the 
total to 257.
For employees with disabilities, the Company targeted an 
increase of up to 500%.
Supply Chain and Level 
of Domestic Component [102-9]
The procurement process is carried out transparently through 
e-procurement.
3 of 2020, an 
Amendment to Law No.
24 of 2012 concerning the Implementation 
of Mineral and Coal Mining Services Business.
Realization of 
TKDN in 2020 reached 75.21%, higher than 70.98% in 2019.
In 2020, 386 suppliers underwent an evaluation 
process, and 206 suppliers or 53.4% of total suppliers 
have passed the evaluation.
It covers 
all tender stages, from vendor registration and pre-
qualifications to goods and services tender processes 
and contract management.
The 
RKEF Bahodopi smelter project is in the technical studies stage 
including AMDAL surveys and public discussions.
Company Performance Rating 
Program for Green Environmental 
Management (PROPER) Green 2019 
received on January 8, 2020.
The award was presented 
on December 14, 2020, in Jakarta.
During the reporting period, the 
Company implemented a cost-saving policy to 
maintain competitiveness.
The evaluation results showed that the Company 
maintained a positive performance during 2020.
With 
competitive production costs, the Company maintained 
its margins amid the volatility in commodity prices and 
business challenges due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
In the future, it is expected 
to further increase cost efficiency or productivity.
During the reporting period, the Company succeeded 
in optimizing its Operating Revenue and Operating 
Profit.
Income generated and distributed to stakeholders 
includes dividends, payments to the Government and 
investments for the community.
Notes on the Economic Value Generated and Distributed Table
•
• The Company’s economic performance is presented on a 
consolidated basis in accordance with the audited financial 
reports.
It is not based on region, area, or product.
This report does not include information on sustainable 
finance and performance targets related to financial 
literacy and inclusion, as the Company's business 
fields are nickel ore mining and nickel processing.
The DPLK portion covers 10% from the 
company and 2% from employees.
The Company’s 
tax management is the responsibility of the Chief 
Financial Officer (CFO).
Tax payments are made through 
the central and regional tax offices, in accordance 
with the prevailing taxation regulations in Indonesia.
Periodically, the Company conducts socialization 
and consultations related to Tax Returns (SPT) with 
employees, contractors/suppliers, and other parties.
PNBP payments consist of Production Royalties, Land 
Rent for Contract of Work Areas, and other PNBP.
During the reporting period, the Company 
continued its plans to build and develop the other 
deposits.
Rebuilding furnace 4 will increase the production capacity 
of nickel in matte.
The nickel in matte 
production process and products comply with safety, health 
and security requirements.
Nickel in matte to buyers is shipped in special packages 
with a capacity of 3.3 tons.
The 
nickel in matte product does not directly affect the user, so no 
special handling is required.
Nickel that has been processed 
into a final product can be recycled.
Emission control efforts are carried out 
by ensuring emission quality is in accordance with 
quality standards and reducing GHG emission levels.
The Board of Directors evaluates the emission control 
efforts through periodic reporting of assessments to 
authorized parties, and through the achievement of key 
performance indicators.
We will continue to work to ensure 
the quality of SO2 emissions meets the Government’s quality 
standards, based on the Minister of Environment and Forestry 
Regulation No.4 of 2014 concerning Fixed Source Emission 
Quality Standards for Mining Business and/or Activities.
SO2 emission 
calculations are stated in Ton SO2/TonNi.
The SO2 emission 
calculation levels have met the quality standard threshold of 
0.80 Ton SO2/TonNi.
2 and 3 where the 
sulfur content in coal is lower than MFO.
•
• Converting conventional diesel to B20 diesel where the sulfur 
content in biodiesel is lower than conventional diesel.
The particulate quality standard is 0.22 Ton Particulate/TonNi.
The volume 
calculation is based on the purchased volume method with 
a 2017 baseline.
The Board of 
Directors evaluates the emission management 
efforts through periodic reporting of assessments 
to authorized parties, and through the achievement 
of key performance indicators.
Energy is consumed by heavy equipment in the nickel ore 
mining operations and the nickel in matte production process.
The total energy consumption in 2020 reached 28,004,485 GJ, 
an increase of 2.3% compared to 27,366,791 GJ in 2019.
Coal 
is the largest source of energy supplied with a total supply 
of 10,060,985 GJ, or 35.9% of the total energy consumption.
[102-48]
Note: There is a change in the submission of data for 2019 and 2018 with the previous 
year's report due to a change in the calculation method.
Total energy costs in 2020 accounted for 31.6% of the cost of 
nickel in matte production.
Efficiency strategies, continuous 
innovations, and superior operations contributed significantly 
to reducing production costs in the reporting period.
[102-48]
Note: There is a change in the submission of data for 2019 and 2018 with the previous year's report due to a change in the calculation method.
[102-48]
Note: 
There is a change in the submission of data for 2019 and 2018 with the previous 
year's report due to a change in the calculation method.
[POJK51-6.d.1]
Post-mining land reclamation aims to improve the 
post-mining land ecosystem as a legal compliance.
During revegetation, we initiated 
an increase in the composition of local pioneer 
trees by up to 40%.
The post-mining reclamation 
activities are the responsibility of the Environment 
and Energy Function and their work is evaluated by 
the Board of Directors through a periodic reporting 
assessment mechanism to the authorized parties.
These activities have the 
potential to impact biodiversity, and to change the 
natural landscape and its ecosystem.
Managing these 
impacts involves identifying and transferring affected 
species from the mining areas to other locations 
including post-mining reclamation areas.
The Company 
regularly hoses down the mining roads to reduce dust 
from passing operational vehicles.
[304-2]

Based on its 2018-2022 reclamation guarantee report 
document, approved by the Ministry of Energy and Mineral 
Resources, in 2020 the remaining open land areas is limited 
to a maximum of 2,198.75 ha.
The area of land cleared for 
mining operations during the reporting period was 281.44 ha, 
resulting in a total area of land for mining operations by the 
end of 2020 of 2,076.42 ha.
The reclaimed mining land in 2020 was 176.24 ha, or 
101.46% of the target of 173.71 ha, resulting in a total area 
of post-mining reclaimed land until December 31, 2020 of 
3,012.44 ha.
At the end of the reporting period, the land that 
has been rehabilitated was returned to its initial condition 
suitable for its designated purpose.
A portion of the operational area in Sorowako, 
totaling 41,822.95 ha, or 59% of the total 70,894 ha, is adjacent 
to protected forests.
The study recorded the 
protected and endangered species of fauna and flora.
In 
line with the regulations, the Company has a mine closure 
plan (RPT) covering all (100%) of the mining areas in the 
Sorowako area, and includes guarantees for mine closure.
Total 
biaya perbaikan mencapai AS$320.000.
[POJK51-6.e.3.a]
Environmental Content Competition 
We continue to encourage the involvement of all parties and 
human resources in supporting environmental conservation, 
and have initiated an environmental content competition.
The Company regularly analyzes the processed effluent 
against heavy metal content parameters.
The goal is to ensure that the effluent processed 
meets quality standards in accordance with the Minister of 
Environment Regulation No.9 of 2006 concerning Quality 
Standards for Wastewater by Nickel Ore Mining Businesses 
and/or Activities.
The results for 2020, showed that the 
processed effluent met the quality standard.
We continue our preservation of the Matano, Mahalona 
and Towuti Lakes that were designated as Nature Tourism 
Park Conservation Areas, based on the Minister of 
Agriculture Decree No.
Part of this activity includes educating the public 
on the importance of protecting the lake ecosystem.
[306-4][306-5][POJK51-6.e.5.a][POJK51-6.e.5.b][POJK51-
6.e.5.c]
Waste Management and Processing 
[306-1] [306-2][MM3][EM-MM-150a.2]
The solid waste produced from nickel in matte production 
is nickel slag, which consists of furnace slag and converter 
slag.
Other solid waste management for overburden and 
topsoil is carried out to reduce the risk of erosion.
Waste management is carried out by it being transported 
and stored at scrap yards.
During 2020 there were 
no reports or complaints related to transporting nickel 
slag.
In the scrap yards, the nickel slag is processed into 
construction material for mining roads as a top layer.
The total slag produced in 2020 reached 4,322,925 
tons, with 3,810,733 tons or 91% being reused.
•
• To prevent or reduce the sedimentation rate in 
Lake Matano and Lake Mahalona caused by mining 
activities, PT.
No hazardous waste is shipped 
internationally.
[102-48]
*There is a change in the submission of data for 2019 and 2018 with the previous year's report due to a change in the calculation method.
We are committed to achieving zero fatal 
workplace accidents and minimizing occupational 
diseases (PAK).
The evaluation results for 2020 showed 
that the Company succeeded in achieving zero fatal 
work accidents and 9,571,366 safe working hours.
After the 
Government of Indonesia determined that COVID-19 
was a pandemic in March 2020, the Company instigated 
a Pandemic Preparedness Plan.
Other 
considerations include a risk analysis on the mining 
activities sustainability, as an essential activity that 
supports the community's economy.
Employees and/or contractors who showed a positive 
reaction to the rapid test underwent further testing with 
a polymer chain reaction test (PCR test).
•
• Tracing other parties who had close interaction with 
employees and/or contractors including their families 
who have been identified as experiencing symptoms of 
COVID-19.
•
• Treatment and recovery measures for employees 
and/or contractors identified as having symptoms of 
COVID-19.
The Company prepared the INCO Hospital in 
Sorowako and 108 isolation rooms as a health facility 
to treat employees identified as having symptoms of 
COVID-19.
[403-3]
We have enforced strict health protocols with strict 
discipline based on the Lutim Regent Regulation No.
These efforts are aimed at maintaining the health of 
employees who are the asset that ensures the Company’ 
Continuity.
The training was aimed at empowering 
employees to prevent the spread of COVID-19.
As at the end of the 
year, 1,324 employees and contractors tested positive for 
COVID-19, or 15.18% of the total workforce in the Company, 
with no fatalities.
The 
examinations were carried out at the INCO Hospital.
[403-2]
The application of OHS involves the participation 
of employees and contractors/suppliers.
These activities 
are carried out through Contractor Safety Management 
System (CSMS), General Induction Program (GIP), Site 
Specific Induction Program (SSIP), Risk Assessment 
(RA), Job Safety Analysis (JSA), Safety Talks, Critical 
Activity Requirements (CAR), Safe Work Permit (SWP), 
and observations through Audits/Inspections.
An OHS 
Central Committee is responsible for these activities.
There were no fatal accidents (deaths).
The project’s aim is to repair the dust filter systems, 
make structural repairs, painting, repair roads and drainage 
systems.
In addition, other activities include renovations to 
office buildings and facilities, and other maintenance.
Realizations of work in 2020 included the renovation of 
Siloku Canteen.
The community empowerment program is the 
responsibility of the Social Development Program Function 
in the External Relations & Corporate Affairs Department.
Evaluations are carried out by the Board of Directors 
through regular assessment reports that cover achievement 
of key performance indicators.
The evaluation results 
showed that the Company has continued the Community 
Empowerment and Development Program (PPM) and 
provided support for the handling of the COVID-19 
pandemic in South Sulawesi including East Luwu Regency.
40 of 2007 concerning Limited 
Liability Companies
•
• Law No.
4 of 2009 concerning Mineral 
and Coal Mining
•
• Government Regulation no.
47/2012 Social and 
Environmental Responsibility of Limited Liability Companies
•
• Minister of Energy and Mineral Resources Regulation Number 
25 of 2018 concerning Mineral and Coal Mining Business
•
• Minister of Energy and Mineral Resources 
Regulation Number 25 of 2018 concerning Mineral 
and Coal Mining Business
•
• Minister of Energy and Mineral Resources Decree 
No.
•
• Handling land encroachment;
•
• Supporting the To Karunsi'e Dongi 
community; and
•
• Implementation of social programs that 
provide mutual benefits between the Company 
and the community (shared value).
Based on monitoring 
and data collection in the field, the area of land 
encroached has reached 17,713.13 hectares.
Land clearing has been carried out by 
local residents for purposes of farming.
Prevention efforts are carried out carefully to avoid 
conflicts with residents.
Indigenous Peoples Support 
[MM6][MM9][EM-MM-210a.3] 
Currently the East Luwu Regency Government is preparing 
a regional regulation draft on the Recognition and 
Protection of Indigenous Peoples (PPMHA), in accordance 
with the Minister of Home Affairs Regulation No.
52 of 
2014 concerning the PPM Guidelines.
Identification, 
verification and further validation was carried out to 
ensure there was historical information on the Customary 
Law Community (MHA), customary territories, customary 
law, customary assets and/or objects, and institutions 
before being stipulated by a Regent Decree for PPMHA.
BA/
P2P/IV/2008 concerning Development Implementation, 
including: 
•
• Renovating 7 houses for residents 
•
• Repairing roads in the Dongi Settlement 
•
• Constructing cowsheds and fertilizer processing facilities 
•
• Constructing compost and equipment warehouses
•
• Providing the facilities and infrastructure for 
freshwater fish farming 
•
• Providing the facilities and infrastructure for organic 
vegetable cultivation 
•
• Providing the facilities and infrastructure for 
maggot cultivation and organic fish feed 
•
• Providing assistance for herbal P3SRLB and UKMB activities
Assistance programs for communities in Dongi, and the 
infrastructure development will continue into 2021 based 
on the existing agreement.
During 2020 there were no land 
disputes.
Social investments carried 
out include partnerships and strategic contributions.
The 
nature of any investment is adjusted based on results of 
stakeholder mapping and development plans by the East 
Luwu Regency Government.
Stakeholder mapping covering 
the Sorowako, Bahodopi, and Pomalaa areas was carried 
out to ascertain the actual and potential impacts of the 
Company’s activities.
The logs have economic value, and the Company has 
finalized a cooperation plan with regional-owned 
enterprises (BUMD) and local community groups to 
manage the tree trunks.
This is part of the 3R Program (reduce, reuse & recycle), 
and the social investment program.
The goal of 
PPM is to increase production capacity and competitiveness, 
add value, and provide economic independence for 
communities in areas affected by operations.
Collaboration to Develop Rural Areas 
The Development of Independent Rural Areas (PKPM) 
has received the support of the Ministry of Villages, the 
Provincial Government of South Sulawesi, and the East Luwu 
Regency Government.
PKPM is aimed at encouraging the 
development of independent and competitive rural areas.
The 
supporting infrastructure included:
•
• Repairing water tanks with a capacity of 500,000 liters.
•
• Upgrading the Asuli dam level.
We provided 
assistance for handling the COVID-19 pandemic.
Assistance was provided to the East Luwu Regency 
Government, through the Regency COVID-19 Handling 
Acceleration Task Force (GTPP).
The assistance was delivered in stages 
during the reporting period.
Details of the COVID-19 
assistance can be found in Appendix 2 of this report.
The MSMEs 
assisted were those that had experienced a drastic 
decline in product turnover and those that had stopped 
production temporarily.
The Company did not relocate any communities during 
the reporting period as a result of its mining activities.
Processing the handover of the TPA land to the East Luwu Regional Government.
Management cooperation with Sorowako Village and land clearing at TPST Morina.
A mock study of making BLK to Bantaeng & the Ministry of Manpower 
in order to increase the capacity of the workforce of East Luwu.
The Regent issued a temporary limited settlement decree.
Repaired and maintained existing street lights.
Pengembangan Infrastruktur 
dan Ekonomi Masyarakat Dongi
Infrastructure Development 
and Economy of the Dongi 
Community
Ledu-ledu, 
Wasuponda
Melakukan renovasi tujuh rumah, perbaikan jalan, dan pelaksanaan 
program peningkatan ekonomi pertanian, peternakan, dan perikanan, 
sehat, ramah lingkungan, dan berkelanjutan (P3SRLB).
Communicate regularly with land owners and continue 
the process of existing agreements.
The agreement fulfillment process is ongoing.
Community development and empowerment focuses on supporting welfare 
improvements for the poor and vulnerable groups, and are related to local community 
program support through the PKPM program scheme and strategic partnerships.
Delivering information directly to affected communities, improving internal 
coordination with related areas such as Compliance, Governance, Finance, and SCM.
Attended the invited hearings from the East Luwu DPRD and the 
East Luwu government, provided regular updates and coordinated 
intensely with the relevant internal departments.
Community Satisfaction 
Index (IKM) surveys were undertaken to evaluate the 
results.
The aim is to encourage 
healthy and ethical business activities, through continuous 
improvements to performance, transparency, accountability 
and responsibility for its stakeholders.
Sustainability Governance
Based on the Extraordinary GMS decision on September 7, 2020, 
there was a change in the composition of the Board of Directors 
and the Board of Commissioners.
[102-21]
Company's sustainability management responsibilities and 
decision making is carried out collectively by the Board of 
Directors, with the supervision of the Board of Commissioners.
The Board of Directors and the Board of Commissioners submit 
performance reports to Shareholders through the General 
Meeting of Shareholders (GMS) as the highest corporate 
governance body.
[102-18][102-23] [POJK51-5.a]

Each member of the Board of Directors including the 
President Director has an equal position.
Under the 
coordination of the President Director, the Board of Directors 
implements the Company's sustainability governance 
covering the economic, environmental and social aspects.
Each member of the Board of Directors can delegate their 
responsibilities for implementing sustainability governance to 
Company officials below them, in accordance with the area of  
responsibility they hold.
Direct consultations are carried out by members 
of the Board of Directors, while indirect consultations are 
carried out by delegating authority to Company officials 
based on the topics being discussed.
Carrying out the corporate communications function to maintain 
the Company's reputation, including the Company's internal 
communications, media relations, public relations and reporting.
Carrying out functions related to PPM including education, health, 
economy, institutions, and other support schemes, such as arts 
and culture that are included in the partnership program.
[POJK51-5.b]
For sustainability performance improvements, the Board 
of Directors is active in competency development related 
to the implementation of sustainability aspects in the 
business.
Competency development is carried out through 
a global leadership workshop held annually.
Compliance with the Code of Ethics 
The Company has instituted a number of internal policies 
that serve as guidelines for implementing GCG principles.
These internal policies include the Code of Ethics and 
Conduct, Procurement Norms, and specific Charters for the 
Board of Commissioners, Board of Directors, Governance 
Committee, Audit Committee, Internal Audit, and 
Corporate Secretary, and other policies and procedures.
•
• Ethics and Behavior Training for 1,116 employees, 97.6% 
of the targeted 1,143 employees with intranet access.
•
• Action for Integrity Training for 94.6% of 
the targeted of 3,090 employees.
Support for Anti-Corruption [EM-MM-510a.1]
We have zero tolerance for corruption and abuse 
of power for personal gain.
[205-1][205-2]
•
• A global online anti-corruption training program in early 
2020 for 97.7% of the targeted 1,068 employees.
The training participation rate reached 
82% of the targeted 256 participants.
The 
e-procurement application forms part of the contract 
management transparency.
All contracts contain a clause to 
not commit bribery and/or corruption.
During the reporting period there were 
266 requests for gifts and hospitality and the company 
approved 254 requests.
A reporting form can be downloaded at http://valewhistleblowerchannel.tipoffsinfo.
A reporting form can be downloaded at http://valewhistleblowerchannel.tipoffs.
VWC is managed by an independent and professional 
whistleblowing service provider in Indonesia.
Each report 
will be responded to and investigated with procedures 
that protect the whistleblower’s rights and the rights of the 
reported parties, in accordance with applicable laws.
This includes no intervention by the Company, 
and impartiality and immunity in the handling, investigation 
and storage of information received through the VWC.
By the end of 2020 there were 74 reports submitted 
to the VWC.
The number of reports increased by 50 
compared to reports in 2019, as all reports received by 
the Department of Corporate Security in 2020 were 
considered VWC reports.
Investigations can be carried out internally or by 
appointed external parties.
The implementation of risk management involves the 
Board of Directors and the Board of Commissioners.
Risk 
management by the Board of Directors is supported 
by executive management functions, including Risk 
Management, Line Management and Internal Audit.
Risk 
management is supervised by the Board of Commissioners 
assisted by the Risk Mitigation Committee.
Periodically, the 
Board of Directors and the Board of Commissioners hold 
meetings to discuss risk management.
During the reporting period, the gemba walks were 
conducted virtually by visiting SCM, Finance, External Relations 
& Corporate Affairs, Security Services and Medical Services 
functions.
To improve the sustainability implementation, during 
the reporting period the Company involved members 
of the Board of Commissioners and Board of Directors in 
sustainability knowledge development and understanding 
through a global leadership summit / sustainability session 
which is held annually.
[102-38][102-39]
Remuneration Policy
The process for determining the Board of Commissioners and 
Board of Directors remuneration is carried out through the 
GMS.
The 
GMS delegated authority to the Board of Commissioners to 
determine the amount and other remuneration for the Board 
of Directors, after taking into account the recommendations 
from the Corporate Governance, Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee.
The SBA jury panel assessed that the Company was 
entitled to an award in this category as it has an anti-
corruption manual that regulates the enforcement of 
anti-corruption and gratuities values for employees, 
and it has internal policies in running its business.
Communication 
Policy and Social 
Management 
System.
Continuous 
efficiency, innovation 
and productivity.
Strengthening 
the capacity of 
local suppliers and 
implementing 
the domestic 
component 
level (TKDN).
Occupational 
Health and Safety.
Implementation of 
health protocols in all 
company activities.
Increased production and 
sales of nickel in matte.
Implementation of the Promote 
National Interest (PNI) and Local 
Business Initiative (LBI) programs.
Application of Safe Work 
Permit, Mining Safety 
Management System (SMKP), 
and Contractor Safety 
Management System (CSMS).
Implementation of 
Environmental Management 
System and PROPER.
Preparation of the Company Work 
Plan and Budget (RKAP), and 
outreach, carried out as needed.
Evaluation and performance reporting 
quarterly, half-yearly and yearly.
Contractor performance evaluation is 
carried out periodically, as needed.
Environmental management 
performance reporting 
regularly, quarterly, half-yearly, 
and yearly as needed.
Meetings with community 
representatives through the 
Inter-Village Cooperation 
Agency (BKAD) forum to discuss, 
compile and evaluate the 
Community Development and 
Empowerment (PPM) program.
BKAD Forum held regularly at the 
beginning of the year, mid-year and end 
of the year, and at any time as needed.
Divestment of the 
Company's shares.
Contribution to the 
state and regions.
Environmental 
management and 
governance.
Completed divestment of 20% 
of the Company's shares to 
the Government of Indonesia 
through PT Indonesia Aluminum 
(Persero) or MIND ID.
Coordination and joint patrols.
Implementation of an 
Environmental Management 
System and compliance 
with regulations.
Periodic reporting of the 
Company's performance.
The divestment of shares was 
carried out on October 7, 2020.
Payment of taxes and PNBP at 
the time set by the Government.
Coordination and joint patrols are 
carried out periodically as needed.
Environmental management reports 
submitted periodically, quarterly, 
half-yearly and yearly or as needed.
Production and sales performance 
reporting carried out periodically, 
quarterly, half-yearly and yearly.
Annual GMS once a year and 
Extraordinary GMS as needed.
The 
2020 Annual GMS was held on July 
29, 2020 and the 2020 Extraordinary 
GMS on September 7, 2020.
Openness and easy 
access to information.
Consultation, research 
and cooperation.
Application and delivery of 
public information through 
press conferences, news 
releases, and public exposes.
Meetings and discussions 
related to the implementation 
of social and environmental 
responsibility (TJSL).
Collaboration on research and 
activities in the context of TJSL.
Publication and delivery of public 
information carried out as needed.
A public expose was held on 
August 26, 2020 facilitated by the 
Indonesia Stock Exchange.
During the reporting period, 
the Company collaborated with 
universities, NGOs, and other entities.
Respect and 
fulfillment of 
customary rights 
and local wisdom.
Implemented as needed 
and continuously.
[102-45][102-48][102-50][102-51][102-52][102-56] 
Sustainability reports are published annually.
The previous 
report was published on June 30, 2020.
The reporting period 
for this report covers January 1 - December 31, 2020.
There 
was a restatement for energy, emission, and waste data due 
to the change of calculation method.
The coverage of the 
reporting includes operational areas in Sorowako, Bahodopi, 
Pomalaa, Representative Offices in Makassar, and Head 
Office in Jakarta.
The consolidated financial statements are 
prepared separately and have been audited by a public 
accounting firm.
The assurance 
process was carried out online on February 22 and 23, 2021.
Reporting reference:
•
• Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) Standards 
2020 edition: Core option; [102-54]
•
• Mining and Metal Sector Supplement (MMSS) GRI; 
•
• Financial Services Authority Regulation (POJK) No.51 
/ POJK.03 / 2017 concerning the Implementation of 
Sustainable Finance for Financial Service Institutions, Issuers 
and Public Companies.
Disclosure of information is tailored to the Company's 
business in the mineral mining sector.
In addition, there 
were no spills resulting from the Company's operations.
•
• Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Metals and 
Mining: accounting and activity metrics
Report Content Determination [102-46]
This Report has been prepared based on reporting principles 
and stages, while taking into account material topics that have 
been determined.
Each material topic fulfillment is adjusted 
to supporting Goals 3, 5, 7, 11, 13, 16, and 17.
•	OHS information is important as the operations carried out by 
the Company pose a high risk to health and employee safety.
Economic performance is Important as it is the basis 
for the Company’s operation, and the existing risks 
can have an impact on financial performance.
•	An important disclosure as the Company continues to work to 
improve the local communities welfare through the PPM.
