In addition, there are workers 
from other regions in Indonesia and foreign workers.
All employees are full-
time workers, and there are no part-time workers.
The Company does not employ child labor or forced labor.
There are no discriminatory practices against employees in 
line with Human Rights Policy No.
A total of 3,036 or 99.74% of the employees are Indonesian 
citizens, with 8 employees or 0.26% foreign nationals.
Some have succeeded in 
occupying senior manager positions, in line with the 
Company policy to provide equal opportunities for 
all employees to develop their careers.
Supply Chain  [102-9]
In compliance with the 2009 Law No.
The TKDN realization in 2019 reached 70.98%, higher 
than the 68.17% in 2018.
It covers all 
tender stages, starting from vendor registration, pre-
qualifications, goods and services tender processes, 
and contract management.
In 2019, 379 
suppliers were evaluated, consisting of 158 local 
suppliers, 201 national suppliers, and 20 international 
suppliers.
Prudential Principles  [102-11]
The operational activities for nickel ore mining and 
nickel in matte production put into consideration the 
prudential principles.
All Company operational actions 
are preceded by studies and ratification through the 
Environmental Impact Analysis (AMDAL) document.
For the smelter construction and mining operations 
plans in Pomalaa, Kolaka Regency, Southeast Sulawesi, 
at the end of December 2019 the AMDAL document 
preparation had entered the final approval stage.
The environmental management prudential 
principle is manifested by applying environmental 
management standards: [102-12]
•	 Mining Safety Management Standards (SMKP) for 
management of Occupational Safety and Health (OHS).
Kategori Sektor Swasta
ASEAN Leadership Award on Rural Development and 
Poverty Eradication.
Reduce greenhouse gas emissions 
aligned with the Paris Agreement 
and be carbon neutral by 2050.
To work with responsibility, ethics 
and transparency, engaging with our 
stakeholders and to fulfill our commitments 
and obtain licenses to operate.
Sinergi dilakukan melalui 
pengelolaan tambang berkelanjutan, sesuai prinsip-prinsip 
kerangka kerja International Council on Mining and Metals.
This synergy involves sustainable mining 
management based on the International Council on 
Mining and Metals framework principles.
Prinsip-prinsip Pengelolaan Tambang Berkelanjutan
Berdasarkan Kerangka Kerja International Council of Mining and Metals 
Sustainable Mining Management Principles Based on 
the International Council for Mining and Metals Framework
Menerapkan praktik bisnis 
yang etis dan sistem tata kelola 
perusahaan yang baik, serta 
transparansi untuk mendukung 
pembangunan berkelanjutan.
Apply ethical business practices 
and sound systems of corporate 
governance and transparency to 
support sustainable development.
Penghormatan pada hak asasi 
manusia budaya, adat istiadat 
dan nilai-nilai karyawan dan 
masyarakat yang terdampak 
kegiatan Perusahaan
Respect human rights and the 
interests, cultures, customs and values 
of employees and communities 
affected by our activities.
Menerapkan strategi dan sistem 
manajemen risiko yang efektif, 
berdasarkan kajian ilmiah dan 
memperhitungkan persepsi 
risiko pemangku kepentingan
Implement effective risk-
management strategies and 
systems based on sound 
science and taking into account 
stakeholder risk perceptions.
Mengupayakan 
pengembangan 
berkelanjutan kinerja 
kesehatan dan keselamatan, 
dengan tujuan akhir 
zero harm
Pursue continual improvement 
in health and safety 
performance with the 
ultimate goal of zero harm.
Pursue continual improvement in social 
performance and contribute to the social, 
economic and institutional development 
of host countries and communities.
Proactively engage key stakeholders in sustainable 
development challenges and opportunities in an 
open and transparent manner.
Effectively report and 
independently verify progress and performance.
[102-50] 
[102-51][102-52][102-48][102-49]
Sustainability Reports are published annually.
The 2019 
Sustainability Report covers the implementation of 
sustainability performance for the January 1 - December 
31, 2019 period.
The previous report was published on 
March 12, 2019.
There are no changes in the material 
priority topics in 2019, but there are restatements for 
information in the previous Sustainability Report, including 
violation reporting through the WBS, nickel in matte 
production costs, and OHS achievement performance.
[102-46]
Report Content Determination and 
Material Topic Impact Limitation  
The 2019 Sustainability Report is prepared based on the 
principles and stages of reporting after taking into account 
the pre-determined material topics.
[102-46]
Kontak Untuk Informasi Laporan Keberlanjutan: [102-53]
Sustainability Report Information:
Agus Superiadi
Director of Site & Support Services
The Energy Building, 31st Floor
Jl.
The 2019 Sustainability Report was prepared with reference 
to: [102-54] 
•	 GRI Standards: Core option and the 2016 
GRI standards, including the 2018 version of 
Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) topic.
[102-45]
The reporting entities included consolidated financial 
statements audited by an independent party for 
the operating areas: Sorowako, Pomalaa, Bahodopi, 
representative offices in Makassar, and Head Office in Jakarta.
The Company adjusted the material topic information 
disclosed in previous Sustainability Reports.
•	OHS information is important as the operations carried out by the 
Company pose a high risk to health and employee safety.
Economic performance is Important as it is the basis for the Company’s operation, 
and the existing risks can have an impact on financial performance.
•	An important disclosure as the Company continues to work to improve 
the local communities welfare through the PPM.
This Report includes the GRI Index to make it easier for report 
users to find the intended disclosure.
The GRI index can be found 
at the end of the Report.
Sustainability  Governance Structure
In accordance with the 2007 Law No.
The President Director 
can delegate these duties and responsibilities to other 
members of the Board of Directors, based on the economic, 
social, and environmental sustainability aspects, in accordance 
with each member of the Board of Directors division of duties 
and responsibilities.
Social aspects fall under the Director of 
Support and Site Services, and environmental and energy 
aspects fall under the Director of Operations (COO).
Carries out the corporate communications function to maintain 
the Company's reputation, including the Company's internal 
communications, media relations, public relations and reporting.
Carries out functions related to PPM including education, health, 
economy, institutions, and other support schemes, such as arts 
and culture that are included in the partnership program.
To improve sustainability performance, the Board 
of Directors and Board of Commissioners is 
active in developing sustainability competencies.
Other programs carried out to promote the 
Code of Ethics and Conduct, include:
•	 Ethics Roadshow – carried out to introduce this unit, 
including informing employees about violation reporting 
channels.
In 2019 the discussion theme 
was, "The winning team will not be silenced."
Based on data from the Ethics and Conduct Office 
Department, in 2019 there were 24 violation reports 
received through VWC.
Each report is received by 
an independent agency and submitted directly to the 
Ethics and Conduct Office in Brazil.
Stakeholder identification has 
been discussed and agreed with management.
Communication 
Policy and Social 
Management 
System
•	Fluktuasi harga nikel dunia.
•	 Global nickel price fluctuations
•	 Increasing efficiency 
and productivity
•	 Strengthening of position 
and market
•	 Strengthening the capacity of 
local suppliers and increasing 
total domestic content (TKDN) 
•	 Economic performance
•	 Occupational Health and Safety
•	 Energy
•	 Emissions
•	Rapat Umum Pemegang 
Saham (RUPS).
•	Penyusunan perjanjian 
kerja bersama (PKB)
•	Townhall Meeting
•	 General Meeting of Shareholders
•	 Preparation of work plans 
and annual budgets   
•	 Implementation of Promote 
National Initiative (NPI) and 
Local Business Initiative (LBI).
•	 Regular dialogue 
and communication 
with employees 
and contractors.
•	 Involvement in community 
development program 
planning, implementation 
and monitoring processes
•	 Involvement in consideration 
of local hiring process
•	 Empowerment of local 
communities
•	Pelaksanaan program pengembangan 
masyarakat sesuai kebutuhan.
•	 Implementation of community 
development programs as agreed.
•	 Information on company 
performance and compliance.
•	Pelaporan kinerja dan 
kepatuhan Perusahaan
•	 Development Planning meetings 
and discussions (musrenbang)
•	 Coordination for Integrated CSR 
Program with apparatus from Local 
Government Work Units (SKPD)  
•	 Company performance and 
compliance reporting.
•	 Periodic meetings, once 
a week or as needed.
•	 Issuance of periodic 
Company performance 
and compliance 
reports and publication 
in accordance with 
regulatory provisions 
/ regulations.
Pengamat
•	 Media massa
•	 Akademisi
•	 LSM 
•	 Entitas Lain
Observers
•	 Media
•	 Academicians
•	 NGOs
•	 Other Entities
Kebijakan 
Komunikasi 
dan Sistem 
Pengelolaan 
Sosial
Communication 
Policy and Social 
Management 
System
•	Konsultasi, kerjasama 
penyusunan CSR/PPM.
•	 Consultation, collaborative 
preparation of CSR / PPM program
•	 Consultation on land dispute 
cases and settlement efforts
•	 Post-mining rehabilitation
•	 Information on Company 
compliance and performance
•	 Pertemuan dan diskusi 
terfokus (FGD).
•	 Focus meetings and discussions (FGDs)
•	 Research collaboration
•	 Company performance and 
compliance reporting.
•	 Periodic meetings 
as needed
•	 Issuance of periodic 
Company performance 
and compliance 
reports and publication 
in accordance with 
regulatory provisions 
/ regulations.
•	 Respect for customary 
rights and local wisdom.
•	 Community empowerment 
and increasing welfare.
•	 Submission of grievances / 
complaints and follow-up
•	Kepatuhan pada proses dan 
mekanisme perizinan.
•	 Compliance with licensing 
processes and mechanisms.
•	 Preparation and ratification of 
Environmental Impact Analysis 
(AMDAL) document.
•	 Community Development and 
Empowerment Program (PPM) based 
on local economic potential.
•	 Job opportunities for local residents 
through a transparent selection process.
•	 Access reporting through VWC.
Meetings as needed.
Efficiency and sustainable 
innovation.
•	 Long-term sales contracts with VCL and SMM.
•	 Determination of work plans 
and budgets, including Company 
performance targets.
•	 Determination of key performance 
indicators (KPI), containing 
performance targets for the Board of 
Commissioners, Board of Directors 
and other company officials.
• Heads of Agreement with PT Indonesia 
Asahan Aluminium (Persero) or MIND ID.
• Maximizing the shutdown strategy.
• Moving the filter station with zero 
water consumption technology.
• Geotechnical studies on mine 
slopes and stockpiling areas.
• Application of management and innovations 
in the mine shift work system.
• Optimization and addition of dozers.
• Improving filtering recovery and mining.
More comprehensive information on economic 
performance can be found in the 2019 Annual Report.
About Larona Canal Lining 
The project began on February 
12, 2019 and was completed in 
April 2019.
The electricity distribution is handled 
by PT PLN (Persero) in accordance with agreements and 
applicable provisions.
12/2015 concerning 
Provision, Utilization and Business Administration of 
Biofuel as Other Fuels.
[102-48]
*Restatement due to changes in calculation method.
Income generated and distributed to stakeholders includes 
dividends, payments to the Government and investments for 
the community.
The minimum rate paid to 
workers at the lowest level in 2019 was 113% of the East 
Luwu Regency DMW.
To realize this target, the 
Company is intensifying its Continuous Improvement 
(CI) program.
The CI program involves all areas of the Company 
so that they operate more efficiently, with increased 
reliability, and anticipate unnecessary expenses.
This model focuses on delivering results through 
deep and comprehensive implementation of policies, 
practices and standards.
"Kaizen" is part of 
the VPS.
The ultimate goal is to create a leaner production 
process to deliver operational excellence.
Nickel in matte is shipped to Japan in special packaging 
with a capacity of 3.3 tons.
The design and process of building hydroelectric 
power plant dams is based on seismic design, and refers to 
Maximum Credible Earthquake (MCE).
Achieving zero workplace 
accidents and minimizing 
occupational diseases (PAK).
•	 Head of Mining Technical (KTT) memo 
related to full medical check-up 
obligations for Contractor employees.
This 
was influenced by adjustments made in line with 
the Director-General of Minerals and Coal Decree 
No.
These activities are 
carried out through Job Safety Analysis (JSA), Safety Talks, 
Critical Activity Requirements (CAR), General Induction 
Programs (GIP), Site Specific Induction Programs (SSIP) 
and Mandatory Audits / Inspections.
[403-2] [403-8]

OHS implementation is carried out and involves the 
participation of employees and contractors.
The theme for 2019 was: Realizing 
Workers Independence Based on a Health and 
Safety Culture in Supporting Productivity Safely.
•	 Holding education and training for Auditors on the 
Management of Mineral and Coal Mining Safety Systems 
(SMKP Minerba).
•	 Added requirements for an Auto Retarder 
Brake System feature on employee bus 
transportation procurement contracts.
[102-48]
* Restatement due to changes in calculation methods.
Kampanye We Have a Dream juga digaungkan melalui media 
sosial.
As part of the "We Have a Dream" campaign, we 
established the Process Plant Housekeeping Project on 
February 14, 2019, which will run until 2021.
In 2019, 19 high-
risk areas of work were identified as having a high risk 
to employees and contractors’ safety, and 20 high-
risk areas of work identified as having a high risk to 
employees and contractors’ health.
Examinations are 
carried out at the INCO Hospital in Sorowako.
4 concerning 
Mineral and Coal Mining.
47/2012 concerning 
Social and Environmental Responsibilities 
of Limited Liability Companies.
•
• Minister of Energy and Mineral Resources 
2018 Regulation No.
25 concerning 
Concessions for -Mineral and Coal Mining.
•
• Minister of Energy and Mineral Resources 2018 
Regulation No.
•
• Minister of Energy and Mineral Resources 
Decree No.
1824K/30/MEM/2018 concerning 
Guidelines for Implementation of Community 
Development and Empowerment.
•	
Periodic reporting and publications 
to external stakeholders.
•	
Internal evaluation by the Social 
Development Program Function 
of the External Relations & 
Corporate Affairs Department.
•
• Facilitating technical assistance for sustainable 
and environmentally friendly agriculture.
•
• Revitalizing community economic activities 
directly affected by mining operations through 
support for small and medium businesses.
The PKPM focuses on the potential and 
resources found in the empowerment areas.
There are about 237 farmers in 
5 villages that have benefited from this unit.
With these units, it 
takes only a matter of hours to complete.
Community Herbal-Based 
Health Efforts (UKBM) 
Program Achievement
In line with the Government's program in the 2009 
Health Law No.
PPM Program in Bahodopi and Pomalaa Blocks
The PPM 2019 program in the Bahodopi and Pomalaa 
Blocks remained focused on infrastructure support.
Negative Impact Management [413-2]
The Integrated Community Development Program 
(PTPM) is aimed at ongoing community development 
and empowerment.
•	 Studies of community development conformity 
with the East Luwu Regency 2005 Regulation No.
25 concerning Mineral and 
Coal Mining Businesses.
PPM Implementation in 2019
•
• Independent Rural Area 
Development Program (PKPM)
	 PKPM is a framework of support developed with the 
Central Government Ministry of Villages and Development 
of  Disadvantaged Regions, the South Sulawesi Provincial 
Government and the Regional Government of East Luwu 
where the activities are targeted at rural areas, and refers to 
the Ministry of Villages and Development of  Disadvantaged 
Regions (Permen Desa) 2016 Decree No.
5 concerning the 
Development of Rural Areas.
Stakeholder 
Identification
The Company continues to communicate and consult with 
stakeholders ongoing basis, which helps inform how we 
identify and manage our sustainability-related impacts.
Synchronize program planning with the 
parties through finalizing the Rural Area 
Development Plan (RPKP) documents 
2.
The planning process is not completely 
based on community issues, and considers 
support aspects such as licensing, land 
availability and technical resources for the 
implementation of program activities.
Clearing and encroachment of 
forests on concession land
2.
Conservation of the seashore from 
technical aspects is not adequate
96
Laporan Keberlanjutan | 2019 | Sustainability  Report
Infrastruktur
Infrastructure
Kelembagaan
Institutional
Pendidikan
Education
1.
Improvement and 
development of district TPA
1.
The dynamics of partnership 
cooperation between government, 
companies and the community
2.
Preservation of local 
culture and wisdom
3.
Capital Access for BUMDES 
/ BUMDESMA and Other 
Business Actors.
Independence in the 
management of the Sorowako 
Education Foundation (YPS)
4.
•
• 2009 Law Number 4 concerning 
Mineral and Coal Mining.
•
• 2009 Law Number 32 concerning 
Environmental Protection 
and Management.
•
• Ministry of Environment and Forestry 
(KLHK) Corporate Performance 
Rating Program (PROPER).
Preparation for the GREEN PROPER 
Action Plan 2020 and the formation 
of an Ad Hoc Committee.
•	
Periodic reporting of 
Environmental Management 
Plans (RKL) and Environmental 
Monitoring Plans (RPL) 
for the authorities.
•	
Internal oversight by the 
Department of Environment.
During 2019 the volume of energy consumption 
derived from hydroelectric power reached 8,491,709 GJ, 
equivalent to 33.54% of total energy consumption in 2019 
of 23,301,151 GJ.
This is lower than the 9,094,556 GJ derived 
from hydroelectric power in 2018, due to the Larona Canal 
lining project undertaken in 2019.
This is in line with the Minister of Energy 
and Mineral Resources Regulation No.
The total biodiesel volume in 2019 reached 86.78 
million liters, up 7.68 million liters or 9.71% compared 
to 79.1 million liters in 2018.
This was due to the 
reduction in the supply of electricity for the Larona 
Canal Lining project that required the operation 
of additional diesel-powered power plants.
Investasi boiler listrik berbasis energi terbarukan 
menelan investasi sebesar 3,9 juta dollar AS.
The quality standards are in accordance 
with the 2006 Environmental Regulation No.9 concerning 
Quality Standards for Wastewater for Nickel Ore Mining 
Enterprises and or Activities.
The 
measurement results are reported regularly to the local 
and central government.
Up to the end of 2019, the Company has ensured that 
the condition of the lakes, ecosystems and habitats have 
been maintained, in support of the Ministry of Agriculture 
Decree No.
•	 Preserving Uru wood (elmeria tsiampacca), as it 
has economic value, in the former mining blocks 
reclamation areas in the Sorowako and Petea blocks.
•	 Implementing organic SRI rice cultivation to support 
environmental preservation, reduce CH4, NO2, 
CO2 gas emissions, and maintain ecosystems and 
improve carrying capacity and land productivity.
•
• 2009 Law Number 32 concerning 
Environmental Protection 
and Management.
•
• 2014 Minister of Environment 
Regulation No.4 concerning 
Emission Quality Standards for 
Immovable Sources for Mining 
Businesses and Activities.
Implementation of ISO 14001: 
2015 Environment Management 
System (EMS) and ISO 
14001: 2015 Certification.
Preparation of the 2020 GREEN 
PROPER Action Plan and formation 
of an Ad Hoc Committee.
Periodic reporting to 
the authorities
Realisasi
Realization 
•	 Realisasi biaya lingkungan 
tahun 2019 AS$10.460.311 juta.
•	 2019 energy consumption of 23,301,151 
GH, an 11% decrease in consumption 
compared to 2018.
•	 SO2 emission levels below the quality 
standard threshold of 0.86 mg / Nm3.
Allocation of environmental costs for 
reclamation, surface water quality 
management, air quality management, 
waste management containing hazardous 
and toxic substances, ecological 
monitoring and other civil works.
Total energy consumption 
in 2019 reached 22,958,664 GJ, down 2,931,975 GJ or 11% 
compared to 25,890,639 GJ in 2018.
The decrease was due 
to the Larona Canal lining project.
A portion of the electricity generated from hydropower is 
channeled to PT PLN (Persero) at an agreed payment price.
The electricity supply is distributed by PT PLN (Persero) to 
the community in East Luwu Regency.
This lower energy 
intensity in 2019 was due to energy innovations being 
implemented including High-Voltage Electrode Boiler 
(HVEB) and diesel fuel saving controls in haul truck mining.
SO2 emissions are released into the air through the nickel 
ore processing facility chimneys during the nickel in matte 
production process.
The calculation 
is based on 2014 LH Regulation No.4 concerning Quality 
Standards for Immovable Emission Sources for Business and 
/ or Mining Activities.
2 and 3 where the 
sulfur content in coal is lower than MFO.
Particulate Control [305-7]
Particulate measurements were carried out based on 
USEPA Method 5 and were expressed in units of mg/Nm3.
The particulate quality standard is 0.22 mg/Nm3.
All nickel slag waste is transported to the storage facilities 
under strict procedures to ensure safety and to prevent 
spills during transportation.
During 2019 there were 
no reports or complaints related to transporting nickel slag 
waste.
Other Solid Waste 
Management
Other solid waste from the nickel ore mining activities 
includes overburden and topsoil that does not include 
hazardous and toxic waste and this is managed by 
storing in stockpiles for the post-mining rehabilitation 
/ reclamation process.
Other solid waste such as 
domestic waste and scrap metal waste is produced from 
processing / supporting activities and processed by 
storing it in former mining areas and scrap yards.
Evaluation of the post-mining 
rehabilitation programs / 
activities is carried out regularly 
by ESDM in the disbursement 
reclamation guarantee and the 
Environment Award agenda, and 
KLHK in the PROPER agenda.
Potential impacts 
include changes in the natural landscape and the ecosystem 
above, increased dust and particle emissions, decreased 
surface water quality and erosion.
•
• Removal of vegetation and trees.
•
• Damage to flora / fauna ecosystems and habitats.
•
• Identification and relocation of protected species.
•
• Stripping the top soil.
•
• Removal of top soil and 
mining materials
•
• Hilangnya lapisan humus tanah.
•
• Changes in natural landscape 
due to large mine pits.
•
• Decreasing the quality of surface water.
•
• Minimizing the extent of land clearing, to land for activities.
•
• Adjusting the contours of land cover to ensure slope stability.
•
• Spreading topsoil at the final overburden site for reclamation.
•
• Constructing and operating sedimentation ponds 
in the active and inactive mining areas.
•
• Protecting topsoil landfill sites by creating 
mounds and planting cover crops.
•
• Planting trees to reduce dust to residents' homes.
In the 2018-2022 reclamation guarantee report 
document, approved by the Ministry of Energy and 
Mineral Resources, the remaining open land areas are 
limited to a maximum of 2,352.84 hectares in 2019.
The area of land cleared for mining operations in 2019 
was 286.56 hectares, resulting in a cumulative land area 
at the end of 2019 of 6,287.70 hectares.
The reclaimed 
post-mining land in 2019 was 81.09 hectares or 108.12% 
of the target of 75 hectares, resulting in a cumulative 
rehabilitated post-mining land as of December 31, 2019 
of 4,249.45 hectares.
A portion of the operating area in 
Sorowako totaling 41,822.95 ha, or 59% of the total 70,894 
ha, is adjacent to protected forests.
Up to the end of the reporting period 83.33% of the plan 
had been implemented.
[304-4], [MM2] 
The Company has an "Ecosystem and Environmental 
Conservation Guidance Document for the Mining Sector 
Businesses in Indonesia" that was published in 2018.
[MM10]
The post-mining reclamation activities pay due regard 
to the provisions in 2009 Law No.4 concerning Mineral 
and Coal Mining, and are reported periodically to the 
authorities.
•	 Protecting the biodiversity.
•	 Stabilizing the overburden dumps, tailings ponds, 
mined land, and other artificial structures.
•	 Respecting local social and cultural values.
In line 
with the regulations, the Company has a mine closure plan 
(RPT) in the Sorowako region and includes guarantees for 
mine closures.
The choice of 
TRWS is intended as a tribute to both figures while 
preserving the local wisdom of Sawerigading.
