Sustainable development contributes to social 
reinforcement, local economic competence development, 
conservation, and environmental conservation aspects.
The 
Company is in charge of strengthening cooperations with 
governments, public institutions, the private sector and the 
wider community.
SDGs were 
initiated by the United Nations to respond to world 
leadership demands in tackling poverty, inequality and 
climate change.
The Sustainability 
Report is published simultaneously with the Annual Report.
[102-52] 
The 2017 Sustainability Report covers the period January 1, 
2017 - December 31, 2017.
[102-50] [102-51]
There is a change in material topics, but no significant 
changes in terms of the boundaries of material topic impact 
to Sustainability Report 2016.
The changes in this material 
topic is by adding a single topic, biodiversity.
This report has been prepared in 
accordance with GRI Standards: Core option.
[102-54][102-
49][102-48]
Kontak terkait Laporan ini: [102-53]
Contact related to this Report:
 Gunawardana Vinyaman
Director of Communications and External Affairs
The Energy Building, 31st Floor
Jl.
During 2017 there 
were no significant changes in the operations area or supply 
chain.
From those number, 87% of the total 
employees (18.18% are manager level officials) are locals 
from East Luwu.
As at the end of the reporting period, the Company's 
nickel in matte production supplied 5% of the world's 
nickel demand.
Some of them are 
PROPER, Indonesia Global Compact Network (IGCN), 
Indonesian Business Council for Sustainable Development 
(IBCSD), and Indonesia Business Link (IBL).
•	
CEO is the highest decision making who is responsible 
for sustainability issues.
In practice, the CEO can 
delegate to other Directors based on relevant aspects 
of economic, social, and environmental sustainability.
•	
Board of Commissioners and Board of Directors Development 
•	
Board of Commissioners and Board of 
Directors Performance Assessment 
•	
Board of Commissioners and Board of Directors Remuneration 
•	
Risk management and management effectiveness
•	
Code of Conduct 
Pendelegasian Kewenangan 
dan Tata Kelola Keberlanjutan 
Delegation of Authority and Sustainable Governance
Tata Kelola Berkelanjutan  
Sustainable Governance
2017 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y  R E P O R T
31
Dalam hal pemenuhan tanggung jawab sosial dan lingkungan 
(TJSL), Direksi mendelegasikan pelaksanaannya kepada 
Departemen Komunikasi dan Hubungan Luar.
For the fulfillment of social and environmental responsibility 
(TJSL), the Board of Directors delegates its execution to 
the Communications and External Affairs Department.
The Department consults with those stakeholders related 
to the implementation of sustainability principles in the 
economic, social and environmental fields.
•	
2017 special initiatives: implementation of 
e-procurement or procurement of goods / 
services based on information technology.
E-procurement is a system for the procurement of 
goods and services through the Internet or information 
systems and other networks such as electronic data 
interchange (EDI) and enterprise resource planning 
(ERP).
The e-procurement value chain includes 
e-informing, e-tendering, e-auctioning, vendor 
management, catalog management, purchase order 
integration, order status, ship notice, e-invoicing, 
e-payment, and contract management.
E-procurement makes the procurement of goods and 
services more efficient and effective.
Increased efficiency, as the quality of the goods is 
guaranteed and reduces the possibility of defect.
E-procurement ensures the quantity 
of goods ordered is precise.
E-procurement ensures goods are 
delivered to the correct place.
Compared to the conventional tagging process, 
e-procurement minimizes the chances of misappropriation 
between parties involved in the procurement process.
The provisions govern the Company's policies 
and procedures with respect to applicable laws and 
regulations concerning anticorruption and anti-bribery.
The Supplier Code of Conduct and Ethics is intended to clarify what constitutes ethical behavior 
in the commercial relations of a company providing services and products to the Company.
VWC is a reporting channel for alleged embezzlement, 
corruption, theft, Company policy violations, conflicts 
of interest, fraudulent financial statements, bribery, 
harassment, discrimination, violations of environmental 
regulations and health and safety (OHS).
At the end of the reporting period, the amount of report 
submitted through VWC reached 26.
The above data is based on the data received from the Ethics 
and Conduct Office Department.
•	 General Meeting of 
Shareholders (GMS)
•	 Preparation of work plans 
and annual budgets
•	 Implementation of Promote 
National Initiative (NPI) and 
Local Business Initiative (LBI).
•	 Dialogue and 
communication 
periodically 
as needed.
•	 Cooperation and 
business contract 
as required.
Policy: Increase business and 
profit revenue.
Commitment:
•	
Increased production volume 
and sales of nickel in matte.
•	
Contribution to stakeholders.
2017 Special Initiatives: 
•	
The Hot Seat Shift Change 
Initiative to increase daily mining 
production by 9,000 tons / day.
•	
Mobile Screening Station initiative 
to shorten the haulage distance 
to the Screening Station.
•	
Pre-stripping Initiative to 
improve access to ores.
Resources:
•	
Nickel in matte production by 
2017 reached 76,807 ton.
This supported 
the Company in maintaining its achievements 
for production and sales of nickel in matte.
[201-1]
Economic Results
The increase in sales volume and the improvement in 
world nickel price significantly influenced the Company's 
revenue and profit.
All revenues from the Company were 
obtained from the sales of nickel in matte.
In 2017 the CPP2 implementation 
entered the Reduction Kiln No.
Coal was chosen as the price 
is cheaper than HSFO, so it has a significant effect on 
production costs.
This project will increase 
the daily rate by increasing 
hourly productivity 
during shift changes.
Proyek ini saat 
ini masih berlangsung
Increasing the DKP output 
by increasing the rotation 
of the dryer feeder from 
2.0 to 2.2 RPM.
This project 
is currently underway.
Optimizing the Life of 
Mine PTVI 2018-2045 plan 
by reviewing the mine 
parameter, the project 
is currently underway.
Reducing operation 
delays in kilns and dryers 
caused by full dust inside 
500T bin by making dust 
pipeline to 100T bin.
Encourage partnerships between national 
vendors with local vendors, resulting in 
transfer of knowledge to local partners.
Supply Chain Sustainability  [102-9]
Nickel ore mining activities and nickel in matte production 
involves supply chain management (SCM).
Implementation is in accordance with the Minister of Energy 
and Mineral Resources Regulation No.24 - 2012 concerning 
the Mineral and Coal Mining Business.
Realization of TKDN 
figures in 2017 reached 67.85%, higher than the target of 
62%.
This was due to the Company's commitment to transfer 
the purchase of goods and services from abroad into local, 
such as the purchase of worker uniforms, and continuing 
to utilize the services of expert consultants locally.
Actual engagement of 
local companies in the supply chain by 2017 reached 22% 
of the target of 24%.
In 2017 evaluations were conducted 
on 168 local level suppliers and 180 national suppliers, 
100% of local suppliers were in compliance with 
the specified environmental criteria standards.
To enforce strict 
packing procedures 
with special packaging 
with a capacity of 3.3 
tons and the inclusion 
of information labels 
and documents on 
major hazard standards 
caused by the product.
Kinerja Keberlanjutan Ekonomi  
Economic Sustainability Performance
2017 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y  R E P O R T
57
LAPORAN KEBERLANJUTAN 2017
58
Kinerja Keberlanjutan Sosial:
Pemberdayaan Berkelanjutan
Social Sustainability Performance: 
Sustainable Empowerment
Kinerja Keberlanjutan Sosial 
Social Sustainability Performance
2017 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y  R E P O R T
59
Kinerja Keberlanjutan Sosial 
Social Sustainability Performance
Keselamatan dan Kesehatan Kerja 
Occupational Health and Safety
LAPORAN KEBERLANJUTAN 2017
60
Pengungkapan Manajemen [103-2, 103-3] 
Management Disclosure 
Kebijakan: 
•	
Permen ESDM No.38 Tahun 
2014 Tentang Penerapan 
Sistem Manajemen 
Keselamatan Pertambangan 
Mineral dan Batubara.
This commitment 
is achieved by the absence of 
fatal workplace accidents.
2017 Special Initiative: 
•	
Auditor Training for Mining 
Safety Management System 
(SMKP) Minerals and Coal.
OHS 
is set out in Article 8 and Article 10 of the 2016-2019PKB.
The inclusion of Occupational Safety and Health in the PKB 
affirms the duties and responsibilities of management and 
workers related to OHS.
In this 
instruction, it is stipulated that OHS compliance is part of 
the individual performance appraisal (KPI).
The 
purpose of compliance with OHS is the achievement of 
the zero/no harm target.
The total number of occupational accidents reached 
fifteen cases, down from seventeen in 2016.
Information: Recording of work accidents are based on reports listed on SAP.
As of the end of the reporting period, 
the Company notes that more than 60% of employees 
and other workers are at high risk related to occupational 
safety or health.
[MM4]
Integrated Safety System
A proper, safe and healthy work environment is the reason 
for implementing the integrated safety system.
This achievement was an increase from 74.77% in 
2016.
The training aims to examine the facilities, 
procedures and competencies of personnel facing 
actual emergencies.
Certification of critical equipment such 
as conveyance, pressure vessel, pipeline, 
and turbine and generator facilities.
Port certification and application of 
safety standards on logistics roads.
Development of workplace environments such as 
circulation and ventilation systems in Skimming Furnace.
Between 2007 and 2017, there have been no demonstrations 
or strikes lasting over a week.
The Pokja is supported by sixteen 
trained personnel and integrated with the Company's 
social health sector programs.
Periodic 
health check ups are conducted at INCO Hospital 
and are intended to ensure the health of employees 
and workers, so they remain fit for work.
This activity is conducted by 
identifying and recognizing psychosocial risks in 
the workplace by bringing in psychologists.
This activity is conducted by providing an 
understanding of preventive and curative measures 
for spine-related / Ergonomic Hazard diseases.
HIV / AIDS counseling conducted privately 
and in collaboration with the Office of 
Health for its prevention in the surrounding 
communities living with HIV / AIDS.
Hearing Conservation Program, a program run by 
Industrial Hygiene to recognize the hazards of noise 
and control the risks that arise in the workplace.
Regular Annual Medical Check Ups integrated 
with the Employee Similar Exposure Group.
MCU are conducted periodically as needed 
through health inspections and adjusted to 
hazards and risks encountered by worker.
Up to the end of the reporting period there were 1,231 
employees who underwent competency skills training for 
heavy equipment operators, factory maintenance, heavy 
equipment mechanics, medical personnel, safety and 
maintenance of Company facilities.
•	
Monthly magazine publications, 
annual reports on Community 
Development and Sustainability.
PTPM was selected as the Company's approach to 
social and environmental responsibility (CSR) through 
improvements to the corporate social responsibility (CSR).
Independent 
Village Partnership Program (PMDM), Strategic 
Partnership, and Strategic Contribution.
PMDM activities are proposed independently 
by villagers through village meetings so as to 
increase community participation and transparency 
of program implementation.
[413-1]
•	 More than 1,000 healthy family toilets 
were built for poor households in 38 
villages in East Luwu regency.
•	 Efforts to process livestock waste 
into biogas energy sources
Program Mitra Desa Mandiri (PMDM)
Independent Village Partnership Program 
Kinerja Keberlanjutan Sosial  
Social Sustainability Performance
2017 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y  R E P O R T
69
•	 Pelatihan life skill bagi Karang Taruna melalui sinergi 
dengan lembaga pemuda untuk peningkatan 
skill dan kecakapan bekerja untuk mendukung 
peningkatan taraf hidup bagi masyarakat terdampak.
•	 Life skills training for Karang Taruna through 
synergy with youth institutions to improve 
skills and work ability to support improved 
living standards for affected communities.
•	 Gapoktan provision through the availability of capacity 
strengthening support for economic institutions 
and economic activities in the community.
During 2017, the Strategic Partnerships and 
Strategic Contributions included: [413-1]
•	 Introducing environmentally friendly Farming 
System for Rice Intensification (SRI) for farmers 
in East Luwu Regency.
•	 In the SME field strengthened SMEs processing local 
commodities as a forerunner to the food industry 
in East Luwu, education for small businesses in 
business legality, and the legality of processed 
products to be accepted by the market.
Towuti, Nuha, Wasuponda and Malili.
Decreasing number of infectious diseases and support 
for the achievement of the East Luwu Provincial 
Health Administration's ODF mission.
Expansion and improvement of access to basic health services to 
improve the quality of life of communities, support for government 
in providing health insurance for the poor and vulnerable.
PMT balita, lansia, kelas ibu hamil
Nutritional food supplements 
for toddlers and the elderly, 
pregnant mothers classes
Promosi kesehatan ibu 
anak dan lansia
Promotion of children 
and elderly health
Menurunnya angka kematian ibu dan anak, 
meningkatnya taraf hidup bagi lansia.
Decrease in maternal and child mortality, rising 
living standards for the elderly.
Increased agriculture and livestock productivity to 
achieve the independence of farmers.
Increased income for vulnerable and poor communities in affected 
areas and increased income and living standards for the community.
Increased income for vulnerable and poor communities in affected 
areas and increased income and living standards for the community.
Increasing the quality of 
education services in existing PAUD schools.
41 of 2016 on Community 
Development and Empowerment.
The preparation for this 
plan began by collecting proposals and finalizing the PTPM 
program for the period 2018-2022.
A meeting was held with village officials as community / 
student representatives and it was decided to change the 
bus management mechanism.
The Ferari area is included in PTVI's 
contract of work area.
These 
included issues in Ferrari, Toni Terry, and Pakumanuk.
[MM6]


In addition to land issues, there was a problem with 
the Labose oil pipeline passing through community 
settlements.
[MM6]
In addition, there were cases with Karonsi'e Dongi 
Indigenous Peoples related to electricity distribution.
The goal is that any impact on the environment can be 
prevented or minimized.
[102-11]


In addition, the Company conducts environmental 
management in the planning stage for its operational activities 
through the preparation of an Environmental Impact Analysis 
(AMDAL) document.
This was due to the replacement of a dust-catching device in 
the form of an electrostatic precipitator (ESP) in the reduction 
kiln No.
4 to ensure compliance with stricter emissions 
standards by 2019.
emission control, especially SO2 emissions, energy 
utilization and alternative energy development, waste 
management and processing, and land rehabilitation and 
post-mining reclamation.
The Company's seriousness 
in managing the environment earned it Aditama (Gold) 
awards, the highest award in Mining Environmental 
Management from the ESDM Ministry, in 2015 and 2016.
This plan is included 
in the 188.4/66/II/BAPEDALDA Agreement.
Policy: 
•	
Minister of Environment Regulation 
No.
•	
Monitor SO2 emissions estimates 
based on the mass balance for 
daily and weekly time intervals.
•	
Create an online weighing 
system for Sulfur, Coal and 
Silica bulk material to facilitate 
the control of shipping and 
improve report accuracy.
•	
The Company does not 
conduct carbon offset.
Resources:
•	
Electrostatic precipator 
(ESP) facilities
•	
Emergency monitoring and 
measurement laboratory facilities
Person in Charge:
•	
Enviromental, Health and Safety 
(EHS) Department supervised 
by Chief Operating Officer.
SO2 Emission Control [305-7]
SO2 is a type of emission that is relevant to the Company's 
activities.
SO2 emission calculation is determined based on Regulation 
of the Minister of Environment No.
4 of 2014 concerning 
the Quality Standard of Immovable Sources of Emissions 
for Business and / or Mining Activities.
The emission 
calculation is expressed as a mass balance, by determining 
the intensity of the emission through the weight ratio of 
SO2 emitted by the weight of the resulting product.
The 
SO2 emission calculation is expressed in kg / kg Ni.
The Company ensures that 
SO2 emission levels have met the quality standard 
limits set by the Government of 0.86 kg /kgNi.
Upaya Strategis Mengendalikan Emisi SO2 
Strategic Efforts to Control SO2 Emissions
Hasil Pengukuran Intensitas Emisi SO2 (Scope 1) [305-7] 
SO2 Emission Intensity Measurement Results (Scope 1) 
Kinerja Keberlanjutan Lingkungan  
Environmental Sustainability Performance
2017 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y  R E P O R T
81
Upaya Strategis 
Strategic Effort
Lokasi
Location 
Mengganti bahan bakar HSFO 
dengan batubara yang mempunyai 
kadar sulfur lebih rendah
Replace HSFO fuel with coal 
with a lower sulfur content
Tanur Pengering 
dan Tanur 
Pereduksi No.
3
Drying and 
reduction kilns 
No.
3
Melanjutkan uji coba sulfur online 
balance untuk meningkatkan kualitas 
pengendalian penambahan sulfur cair
Continue online sulfur balance 
test to improve control quality 
of liquid sulfur addition
Tanur 
Pereduksi No.
4 and No.
The 
particulate quality standard value was 0.22 mg / Nm3.
•	
Utilize energy-saving technologies 
that are financially feasible
•	
Audit, assess, and report 
regularly to management on 
policy implementation.
•	
Government policy for energy 
conservation as stated in 
HRM No.14 Year 2012 About 
Energy Management.
Commitment:
•	
Energy efficiency and alternative 
energy development.
2017 Special Initiatives: 
•	
Continuing the Coal Conversion 
Program on Plant No.2.
Person in Charge:
•	
Maintenance and Facilities Department 
supervised by Chief Operating Officer.
•	
Thermal oil-fired generators, which do 
not include renewable energy.
[302-1]
In general, total energy consumption in 2017 
amounted to 26,381,630 GJ, down 0.43% 
compared to 26,500,702 GJ in 2016.
Production Costs 
The total energy cost in 2017 represented 28% of the 
nickel in matte production costs.
This amount is 1.6% higher than 343.36 GJ / ton in 2016.
This was due to the decrease in nickel production from 2016.
During 2017 the volume of energy usage generated from 
hydroelectric power plant reached 9,194,231 GJ, or about 
34.8% of total energy consumption in 2017.
The reason was due to the 
water in the lake being sufficient in 2017.
Hydroelectric power plant operations will indirectly reduce 
CO2 emissions generated.
The 
biodiesel program directly reduces diesel fuel consumption 
and is a form of support for Government programs to 
make biodiesel an alternative source of energy.
This was due to Thermal generation 
diesel usage decreasing from the previous year.
Kinerja Keberlanjutan Lingkungan  
Environmental Sustainability Performance
2017 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y  R E P O R T
89
Pengungkapan Manajemen [103-2, 103-3]
Management Disclosure  
Kebijakan: 
•	
Peraturan Pemerintah No.101/2014 
Tentang Pengelolaan Limbah 
Bahan Berbahaya dan Beracun
•	
Peraturan Menteri Lingkungan 
Hidup No.
Solid Waste Management 
and Treatment [306-2][MM3]
Nickel ore mining activities produce solid waste in the 
form of overburden and top soil.
The solid waste from 
the nickel in matte process is from the slag furnace and 
the slag converter, which includes B3 waste.
The management of solid waste is carried out in 
accordance with Government Regulation No.101/2014 
on the Management of Hazardous and Toxic Waste.
Pengukuran dilaksanakan oleh laboratorium 
Effluent Management and Processing 
In addition to solid waste, nickel ore mining activities and 
nickel in matte production produces effluent.
Periodical monitoring and measuring of wastewater 
quality is conducted.
In addition, there are some trucks carrying trash 
from tree cutting and clearance are not included in the weighing facility.
LAPORAN KEBERLANJUTAN 2017
92
Jumlah dan Metode Pengelolaan Limbah Padatan dari Kegiatan Pengolahan dan Penunjang [306-2]
Total and Methods of Solid Waste Management from Processing and Supporting Activities 
independen terakreditasi, menggunakan metode SNI 
6989.59:2008 Air dan Air Limbah dan Standard Methods for the 
Examination of Water and Wastewater 21th Edition (2005), 1060, 
Collection and Preservation.
The amount of 
annual wasted water at Kathryn's site has not been calculated.
The company undertakes progressive reclamation 
by rehabilitating the land at the mine site.
Financial provisions were included 
in the environmental cost component in the Company's 
Financial Statements.
That area covers 76.59% of the Work Plan 
and Budget (RKAB) 2017 covering 75.39 ha.
The land disturbed 
due to mining processes amounted to 197.54 ha.
Tahun
Year
Total Luas Area Terganggu
Pada Awal Tahun yang 
Belum Direhabilitasi
Total Area of Unrehabilitated 
Disturbed Land in Beginning of Year
Jumlah Luas Area 
Terganggu pada Tahun 
Ini (2017)
Total Area of Disturbed 
Land This Year (2017)
Jumlah Lahan yang 
Direhabilitasi Tahun Ini 
(2017)
Total Area of Rehabilitated 
Land This Year (2017)
Total Luas Area Terganggu
Pada Akhir Tahun yang 
Belum Direhabilitasi
Total Area of Unrehabilitated 
Disturbed Land at End of Year
(1)
(2)
(3)
1+2-3
2017
1,425.90
197.54
57.74
1,595.70
2016
1,191.80
286.16
51.04
1,425.90
2015
997.2
267.63
74.09
1,191.80
Kinerja Keberlanjutan Lingkungan  
Environmental Sustainability Performance
2017 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y  R E P O R T
95
Luasan Lahan Terganggu dan Direhabilitasi (ha) [304-3, MM1] 
Area of  Disturbed and Rehabilitated Land (ha)
Proses reklamasi pascatambang meliputi tahapan 
penutupan tambang, penimbunan lahan pascatambang 
dan pelapisan tanah pucuk.
Continued with, erosion control, drainage development, 
revegetation road development, pioneering and 
endemic tree planting, crop care and maintenance, and 
success and utilization monitoring.
Each stage involves a 
supporting program/activity.
Of 
the total 70,894 ha operations area, 41,822.95 ha or 59% 
is in protected forest areas.
[304-4]
The Company is aware that mining activities from the 
opening of the field until the excavation of nickel ore, has 
the potential to change the natural landscape so as to 
affect the habitat of living creatures in it.
