2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  2
Our Approach
Freeport is a leading responsible copper producer. Our commitment to 
responsibly produced copper is visible in everything we do and is driven by 
our core values of Safety, Respect, Integrity, Excellence and Commitment. 
Our core values direct the decisions we make as a company and as individual 
employees. These values represent who we are and how we work — 
everyone, everywhere, every day. Our focus on responsible production is 
critical to establish and maintain acceptance from our stakeholders through 
shared value creation and to meet society’s responsible sourcing objectives 
necessary to supply the world with copper.
Defining and implementing responsible production at Freeport is an iterative 
process with continuous improvement at its core. The process incorporates 
our internal governance and policies as well as our external voluntary 
commitments. Ongoing stakeholder engagement is fundamental to informing 
our policies and processes, understanding material topics, and for sharing 
best practices and our performance across various environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) topics. Regular measurement and reporting support our 
understanding of our current performance, any gaps in our performance and 
the actions we need to take to improve. Third-party validation of our reporting 
helps us to meet our internal and external commitments. This graphic 
describes how we implement responsible production.
GOVERNANCE
VALIDATION
POLICIES 
& PRACTICES
STAKEHOLDER 
ENGAGEMENT
VOLUNTARY 
COMMITMENTS
RISK REGISTER
ACTIONS
MEASURE 
& REPORT
Governance
Sustainability is embedded in Freeport’s values and business strategy. 
Governance and oversight of sustainability starts with the Board of Directors 
(the Board) and cascades through executive leadership to our sites. Good 
governance requires strong leadership to ensure the values of the company 
are integrated into everyday operations and business decisions. It also means 
having the structure and processes in place to facilitate effective decision-
making and actions that advance the long-term interests of all our stakeholders.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The Board oversees and guides the company’s business strategy and 
monitors the development and management of risks that impact the 
company’s strategic goals. In its risk oversight role, the Board reviews, 
evaluates and discusses with members of management whether the risk 
management processes designed and implemented by management are 
adequate in identifying, assessing, managing and mitigating material risks 
facing the company, including financial, international, operational, social 
and environmental risks. 
The Board as a whole is responsible for risk oversight at the company, 
with reviews of certain areas being conducted by one of its four standing 
committees: Audit, Compensation, Corporate Responsibility and 
Governance, each of which is composed entirely of independent directors 
and regularly reports to the full Board. Committee charters define the roles 
and responsibilities of each committee within the company’s governance 
framework. Our Corporate Governance Guidelines along with the 
charters of our principal Board committees provide the framework for the 
governance of our company and reflect the Board’s commitment to monitor 
the effectiveness of policy and decision-making at both the Board and 
management levels.
Throughout 2020, our Board continued to exercise its active oversight role 
with a focus on the company’s COVID-19 response. The Board discussed 
these topics at each of its 11 meetings in 2020 and also received regular 
communications throughout the year from our Chief Executive Officer (CEO) 
regarding actions being taken to support the health, safety and well-being 
of our workforce and our host communities, supply chain resiliency and 
execution of our operating plans.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP (CEO / CFO)
SITE GENERAL MANAGERS
FUNCTIONAL DEPARTMENT DIRECTORS
SUSTAINABILITY LEADERSHIP TEAM
GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY NETWORK
Business Unit 
Presidents
Senior Leadership 
Functional Departments
Corporate 
Responsibility
Committee 
Governance 
Committee
Audit
 Committee
Compensation 
Committee
OPERATIONS
CORPORATE
Leadership celebrates the end of open-pit mining at Grasberg in 
2019; operations are now fully transitioned to underground mining. 
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  4
SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE
The Corporate Responsibility Committee (CRC), on behalf of the Board, 
is responsible for providing advice, recommendations and oversight to 
the company’s management team on environmental and social matters. 
The CRC regularly reviews the effectiveness of management’s strategies, 
programs and policy implementation with respect to safety and health, 
responsible production frameworks, tailings management and stewardship, 
climate change, water stewardship, biodiversity, waste management, human 
capital management (including inclusion and diversity initiatives), human 
rights, stakeholder relations, social performance and Indigenous Peoples, 
responsible sourcing, and political activity and spending practices. During 
2020, the CRC met three times, and a member of the CRC participated 
directly in several shareholder engagement calls during the year to solicit 
feedback on our sustainability programs and practices. 
Additionally, the Audit Committee and the Governance Committee conduct 
oversight over certain key ESG matters. The Audit Committee conducts 
oversight of global compliance, information technology security and 
cybersecurity, and provides ultimate oversight of our global tax strategy as 
part of its financial oversight responsibilities. The Governance Committee 
conducts oversight of corporate governance practices and procedures. 
EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY LEADERSHIP
Our Chairman and CEO has ultimate responsibility for the company’s 
sustainability performance. The company’s cross-functional Sustainability 
Leadership Team (SLT) includes members of the management team tasked 
with defining the sustainability strategy and implementing our sustainability 
policies, systems and programs across the organization. In 2020, the SLT 
met four times and moving forward, will meet monthly and regularly report 
to executive leadership, including to our Chairman and CEO, and President 
and Chief Financial Officer (CFO). In addition, members of the SLT report to 
the CRC on key ESG matters at regularly scheduled meetings.
The SLT is sponsored by our Senior Vice President and Chief Administrative 
Officer and is led by our Vice President and Chief Sustainability Officer, 
with active participation from other members of the SLT, including our four 
operational business unit Presidents. SLT membership also includes Vice 
Presidents or senior representatives from functional groups, including 
health and safety, security, supply chain, human resources, sales, legal, 
compliance, sustainability and finance. 
Executive officers are held accountable for the company’s sustainability 
performance through the company’s performance-based annual incentive 
program (AIP). In 2020, ESG metrics collectively accounted for 25% of the 
AIP (15% safety and 10% sustainability). 
25
%
 E
S
G
ANNUAL INCENTIVE 
PROGRAM
35% 
Operational
40% 
Financial
10% 
Sustainability
15% 
Safety
2020 CRC Discussion Topics
›	COVID-19 response and human 
capital management  
›	Investor feedback on ESG, including 
expectations on climate change and 
SASB / TCFD reporting 
›	Indigenous Peoples and cultural 
heritage engagement programs
›	Workforce safety and health 
(performance, incident review and 
corrective actions, and policy update)
›	Human Rights Policy and program, 
including annual adoption of UK 
Modern Slavery Act Statement and 
adoption of a Responsible Sourcing of 
Minerals Policy
›	Existing environmental programs 
and policies and potential 
opportunities for improvement; 
new 2019 climate and water reports
›	Tailings management and the 
company’s leadership in ICMM’s role 
as a co-convener of the Global Industry 
Standard on Tailings Management
›	Progress on diversity and inclusion 
initiatives, including adoption of 
formalized standalone Inclusion and 
Diversity Policy
›	Social investment and charitable 
contributions; political spending
Values, Policies & Practices 
PRINCIPLES OF BUSINESS CONDUCT 
At Freeport, we are guided by our Principles of Business Conduct (PBC). 
Our PBC is the cornerstone of our commitment to ethical business 
practices.
It sets forth the global principles that our workforce must follow in all 
activities – from complying with laws to avoiding conflicts of interest 
to treating fellow colleagues and stakeholders with respect. The PBC 
highlights our core values – Safety, Respect, Integrity, Excellence and 
Commitment – and provides guidance for the application of these values 
to our business. It also defines the expected behavior of all our employees 
and the Board itself. 
Our PBC and corporate governance guidelines, along with the charters of 
our principal Board committees, provide the framework for the governance 
of our company and reflect our commitment to monitor the effectiveness of 
policy and decision-making at both the Board and management levels.
We conduct comprehensive training on our PBC, including annual 
certification by management-level employees and induction training 
for all new employees. This process consists of in-person or computer-
based trainings and requires employees to certify that they 
understand it and have no known instances of non-
compliance. Managers and supervisors also are 
responsible for ensuring their direct reports 
understand these principles. Please refer to page 
19 for more information on our Compliance Line 
and grievance management.
Our Henderson mine and mill in Colorado are connected 
by a 10-mile conveyor tunnel under the Continental 
Divide and an additional five-mile surface conveyor. 
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  6
POLICIES & PRACTICES
Our PBC, together with our global policies and practices, details our expected behaviors and commitments to our stakeholders. Freeport’s policies are listed 
below and also are available in the corporate governance section of our website. 
Anti-Corruption
Establishes the Company’s zero tolerance policy for any form of corruption, 
private- or public-sector, and prohibits facilitation payments worldwide. 
Outlines procedures to meet the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA)  
and other relevant anti-corruption laws, including laws in the countries 
where we operate.
Environmental
Outlines our duty to minimize the impact of our operations on the 
environment using risk management strategies based on valid data and 
sound science and, where practicable, to protect and enhance the quality of 
the environment in areas where we operate.
Human Rights
Outlines our commitments to respecting internationally recognized 
human rights and to implementing the United Nations Guiding Principles 
on Business and Human Rights. The Voluntary Principles on Security and 
Human Rights are the guidelines for our security programs. 
Inclusion & Diversity
Outlines our commitment to fostering a culture that is safety-focused, 
respectful, inclusive and representative of the communities where we 
operate. It also describes how we advance our inclusion and diversity 
principles in the work we do. 
Political Activity & Spending Practices
Sets forth our expectations regarding political activity and spending and 
applies to Freeport and its affiliated political action committees. 
Responsible Sourcing of Minerals
Outlines our commitment to producing and sourcing minerals and metals 
responsibly, including respecting human rights and preventing bribery, 
fraud and corruption, and implementing the Organisation of Economic 
Co-operation and Development (OECD) Guidelines for Responsible Mineral 
Supply Chains in Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas.
Safety & Health
Establishes our objective of zero workplace fatalities and to decrease 
injuries and occupational illnesses as well as benchmarks to evaluate our 
performance. The Policy also addresses the implementation of safety and 
industrial health audits at our operations on a regular basis. 
Social Performance 
Recognizes the vital role of stakeholder engagement and calls for 
collaboration with communities, including indigenous and vulnerable 
populations, to minimize and mitigate adverse impacts and pursue 
opportunities to maximize benefits (formerly called our Community Policy).
Supplier Code of Conduct
Based on the PBC, outlines our expectations for suppliers and supports 
our commitment to only do business with suppliers and contractors who 
demonstrate meeting the standards we set for ethical business conduct.
Contributing to the UN 
Sustainable Development Goals
The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were adopted by the United Nations in 2015 and seek to 
make the world more peaceful and prosperous for both people and planet. By supplying responsibly produced copper, 
Freeport is proud to be a positive contributor to the world well beyond our operational boundaries. Part of responsible 
production means purposefully and deliberately contributing to relevant SDGs within our host communities and across 
our value chains, while simultaneously seeking to mitigate any potential impediments to their realization. 
Site-specific circumstances, including environmental considerations and stakeholder dynamics, vary widely across 
our global organization. To some degree, Freeport works toward all 17 SDGs through aspects of our day-to-day work 
at our different sites, partnership initiatives and social investments. While we have been mapping our programs to 
all of the SDGs for many years, our aim is advance this work by identifying and focusing specifically on those goals 
where we believe we can make the most meaningful contribution. 
SDG 12 – Responsible Consumption and Production – is central to Freeport’s strategy of being foremost in the global 
copper industry. In 2020, Freeport began the process of validating its copper producing sites against the Copper Mark, 
a new third-party assurance framework designed specifically to demonstrate the copper industry’s contribution to 
the SDGs. To date, six of our sites have been awarded the Copper Mark and we have future plans to validate all copper 
producing sites. To learn more about this work, refer to the following Defining Responsible Production section.  
Also in 2020, we initiated work with a third-party firm to measure and evaluate the impact of our social investments 
at our North America sites to better understand the social value created, including a measurement of our contribution 
to the SDGs. Looking ahead, we plan to implement this evaluation at our other sites to support the increased efficacy 
of our social investments and identify relevant SDGs.
Informed by the Copper Mark validation process and our social impact valuations, we plan to advance our 
understanding of both our positive and negative impacts on the SDGs and we look forward to communicating our 
progress on our SDG prioritization in future reporting. In the interim, we have identified the SDGs that we believe 
our global programs contribute the most and sign-posted the relevant goals throughout this report. 
SDG 12 — Responsible Production — is 
central to Freeport’s strategy of being 
foremost in the global copper industry.
1	 copperalliance.org
2	 copperalloystewardship.com
How the Copper Industry 
Contributes to the SDGs
Copper is strategically important to 
enabling society’s progress
DECARBONIZATION 
›	 By 2030, increased use of copper could reduce global carbon 
emissions by 16%1
›	 Copper is a critical component for electric vehicles, charging stations, 
high-efficiency motors and renewable energy 
INFRASTRUCTURE
›	 Copper is essential for reliable, advanced electrical grids (production 
and delivery of energy and energy storage), telecommunications (data 
centers, networks and cell towers) and railways
TECHNOLOGY 
›	 Copper is crucial for connecting and advancing society and smart 
cities / homes, including artificial intelligence, smart grids, 5G 
technologies, mobile phones and computers  
PUBLIC HEALTH2
›	 Copper could play an invaluable role in public health if used more 
frequently on high-touch surfaces given its substantial antimicrobial 
properties, which can eliminate bacteria, viruses and other pathogens, 
reducing the risk of transmission
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  12
The Freeport-McMoRan Technology 
Center in Tucson, Arizona.
Supporting education and cultural heritage 
in our host communities in Arequipa, Peru 
(photo captured pre-COVID-19).
Defining Responsible Production
Freeport is a leading responsible copper producer — foremost in copper. Critical to this is our role in setting the 
benchmark for responsible production in the industry. Being a responsible producer means integrating sustainability in 
everything we do, everywhere, every day. This includes understanding the needs of our local and global stakeholders 
and working with institutions, partners and associations to innovate and drive change across the industry. We do this 
by identifying the commitments that will move the industry forward and enable us to make meaningful advancements 
at our operations and in our supply chains, such as the UNGPs and the VPs. Being a responsible producer means 
purposefully working toward achieving the SDGs within our communities and value chain. We work globally to 
translate these commitments to our business via the development of common industry frameworks.
FRAMEWORK DEVELOPMENT
In 2020, we continued our work with both the ICMM and ICA to develop and implement site-based sustainability 
frameworks that aim to provide greater assurance and transparency to stakeholders while continuously improving 
conditions at our operations.
In late 2019, following comprehensive engagement with stakeholders, the ICMM membership approved and 
published 38 performance expectations, designed to augment its long-held 10 Mining Principles for sustainable 
development. These expectations, along with topic specific Position Statements and assurance and validation 
requirements, define ICMM’s membership commitments. The 38 performance expectations must be validated by a 
third-party at the site level with annual activities published, including how expectations will be met.
In 2020, ICA launched the Copper Mark – a continual improvement responsible production framework. This voluntary 
framework requires that copper producers undertake third-party assessments against their performance on 
32 requirements across ESG issues. The current Copper Mark framework is focused on copper producers at the 
beginning of the supply chain, but the organization is developing criteria for fabricators and component producers 
with the goal of establishing a chain of custody for downstream companies, such as automobile and electronics 
producers. Freeport plays a leading role in this work by actively participating in the organization’s multi-stakeholder 
processes to further develop and work toward achieving its Theory of Change. This includes key roles in the Advisory 
Council, Due Diligence Working Group, Technical Working Group and Transparency Working Group. 
Copper Mark bundle label on copper cathode 
from El Abra, the first Chilean company to be 
awarded the Copper Mark in December 2020.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  14
CHARGING AHEAD WITH THE COPPER MARK
As an early adopter of the Copper Mark assurance framework, we are 
committed to responsible production practices across our global operations. 
We plan to achieve the Copper Mark at all of our copper operating sites. In 
2020, we began this process with a Letter of Commitment for our first six sites. 
Since then, all six sites have been awarded the Copper Mark and we have 
initiated our routine check-ins with the organization on improvement plans. 
These six sites include our Cerro Verde mine in Peru, El Abra mine in Chile, 
Atlantic Copper smelter and refinery in Spain, Morenci mine and Miami smelter 
in Arizona, and El Paso refinery in Texas. 
Our approach to meeting the requirements of both the Copper Mark and 
ICMM frameworks include the use of integrated, site-level assessment 
tools and assurance processes across the business. We believe this 
approach delivers value to our shareholders by enabling an efficient 
assessment process at the site-level while providing site-level 
transparency to stakeholders locally and globally. Our site level Copper 
Mark assessment reports can be found at coppermark.org. 
THE RISK REGISTER
Being a responsible producer means evaluating ourselves against our 
commitments at both a site and corporate level and reporting regularly to 
our stakeholders in a transparent manner. 
To translate our commitments to our everyday work, we use our Sustainable 
Development Risk Register (the Risk Register) process globally to identify 
and prioritize sustainability risks and actions. Sites use the Risk Register 
to identify risks and opportunities related to our commitments in relation 
to their operation and stakeholders. The Risk Register then prioritizes 
the most significant risks that could have negative consequences to 
our business and our stakeholders in areas such as health and safety, 
human rights, environmental management, community development, and 
economic impacts.
Site teams use the Risk Register to uncover new risks and opportunities that 
can further drive Freeport's commitment to responsible production, while 
prioritizing the most meaningful actions to the business as a whole. We work 
collaboratively to implement our various commitments, and the use of the 
Risk Register allows management teams to tailor their site-level priorities 
while ensuring the overall implementation is consistent globally.
Implementation of the Risk Register
The corporate sustainability department works with subject matter experts 
globally to develop and maintain the Risk Register, updating it with new 
topics as they become relevant and working hand in hand with operations 
team members so prioritization processes are consistent with corporate 
procedures. The risks included in the Risk Register are mapped from our 
commitments to enable the Risk Register to be the focal point of internal and 
external assurance at both the corporate level and operating sites. In 2019, 
we updated the Risk Register process to include all 38 ICMM Performance 
Expectations as well as the 32 Copper Mark requirements. We also mapped 
the SDGs to the Risk Register to support identification of challenges and 
opportunities to progress our contribution across the goals.
In 2020, Freeport committed to 
achieving the Copper Mark at all 
copper producing sites over time; 
to date, six of our sites have been 
awarded the Copper Mark.
Economic Value Contributed
We contribute to the wealth and prosperity of the countries, regions and 
communities where we operate by generating economic value that includes 
tax and royalty payments, local hiring and procurement, and community 
investments. Mining is an inherently cyclical business with production levels 
and profits fluctuating over the life of the mine, which can impact our social 
investments and other sustainability programs.
In 2020, Freeport’s direct economic contributions totaled $11.4 billion, which 
includes $8.2 billion in payments to suppliers, $2.3 billion in employee wages 
and benefits, $692 million in payments to providers of capital, $131 million 
in taxes, royalties and other payments to governments, and $108 million in 
direct community investments. We also made payments of $2.0 billion for 
capital expenditures. Refer to our 2020 Annual Report for more detailed 
information on our financial performance and to page 42 of this report for 
more information on our 2020 community investments.
2020 SUMMARY OF KEY ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTIONS BY OPERATING REGION
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 
DECEMBER 31, 2020 ($ MILLIONS)
NORTH 
AMERICA1
SOUTH
AMERICA
INDONESIA
EUROPE
OTHER 
COUNTRIES
TOTAL
Payments to suppliers
$ 3,465 
$ 1,317 
$ 1,283 
$ 2,105 
$ 3 
$ 8,173 
Employee wages & benefits
$ 1,400 
$ 433 
$ 343 
$ 89 
$ 5 
$ 2,270 
Payments to providers of capital:
   Dividends & distributions
$ 73 
$ 0 
$ 0 
$ 0 
$ 0 
$ 73 
   Interest
$ 405 
$ 121 
$ 86 
$ 7 
$ 0 
$ 619 
(Refunds from) payments to governments2
($ 194)
$ 31 
$ 287 
$ 4 
$ 3 
$ 131 
Community investments
$ 35 
$ 5 
$ 67 
$ 1 
$ 0 
$ 108 
Direct economic contributions
$ 5,184 
$ 1,907 
$ 2,066 
$ 2,206 
$ 11 
$ 11,374 
Capital expenditures3
$ 476 
$ 183 
$ 1,266 
$ 36 
 $ 0 
$ 1,961 
1	 Includes FCX parent company results.	
	
2	 Excludes employee payroll taxes, dividends, property taxes and certain other taxes, which are included in payments to suppliers and dividends. A reconciliation to the 2020 Cash Payments to Governments schedule can be found in the 
sustainability section of our website at fcx.com.
3	 Includes costs for capital projects, which include additional payments to suppliers, employee wages and benefits, payments to providers of capital and payments to governments, not included in the payments to government line in table above.
Note: These amounts were derived primarily from FCX’s publicly reported segment data. For disclosure of FCX’s segment data in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP), see FCX’s 2020 Form 10-K 
pages 163 – 168.	
	
	
	
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  16
Performance Targets
1 	 TRIR = [(Fatalities + Lost-Time Incidents + Restricted Duty 
Incidents + Medical Treatment) x 200,000] / Total Hours 
Worked.
2 	 Gross human rights violation – There is no uniform 
definition under international law; however, the United 
Nations Office of the High Commissioner report The 
Corporate Responsibility to Respect Human Rights – 
An Interpretive Guide, provides guidance on identifying 
such types of violations.
3 	 Significant environmental event is defined as a 
consequence rating of 3 or higher on our Risk Register.
Note: All performance targets are annually recurring and 
company-wide, unless otherwise noted.
FOCUS AREA
2020 TARGET
2020 PERFORMANCE
STATUS
Governance
Comprehensive training on PBC, 
including annual certification of 
management-level employees 
58% employees were trained in 2020, including 
an 82% certification rate of management-level 
employees
Train 90% of selected employees on 
anti-corruption laws, regulations and 
company policies and procedures
In 2020, 82% of the employees selected to 
participate in the online training completed
 the course
Health & Safety
Incur zero fatalities
We regret to report 5 work-related fatalities occurred 
in 2020
Target of Total Recordable Incident 
Rate (TRIR)1 of 0.70
At 0.69 for 2020, we met our target TRIR
2021 Target: 0.69 TRIR1
Human Rights
Incur zero gross human rights2 
violations at our operations by 
employees and contractors
Achieved in 2020
Inclusion & Diversity
Increase the percentage of women 
employees, including representation in 
managerial roles, to 15%
Women comprised 13% of our global employee 
population and held 13% of all managerial positions 
in 2020
Communities
Invest 1% of the previous 3 years’ 
annual mining operations revenue, or 
$165 million in community programs 
in 2020
Invested approximately $108 million in community 
programs across our operations in 2020
2021 Target: $157 million in Community Investments
Environmental Events
Incur zero significant environmental 
events3
Achieved in 2020
Incur zero penalties in amounts 
exceeding $100,000
Achieved in 2020
Climate
Reduce GHG emissions by 15% per 
ton of copper cathode in the Americas 
by 2030 (vs. 2018 baseline)
On target: while performance decreased in 2020 
due to operational changes related to COVID-19 and 
economic uncertainty, project analysis and planning 
for Scope 1 & 2 reduction projects accelerated
Tailings Stewardship
Implement the Global Industry 
Standard on Tailings Management 
Committed to implementing at tailings facilities with 
“extreme” or “very high” potential consequences by 
August 2023; all other categories by 2025 
Achieved
Partially achieved or in-progress
Missed
By acting ethically, we aspire to 
earn the respect, trust and 
confidence of our stakeholders.
Celebration of Indonesia’s Independence Day Anniversary (pre-COVID-19) in 
Tembagapura in the Highlands near our Grasberg operations in Indonesia.  
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  18
Business Integrity
Freeport is committed to the highest level of ethical and legal conduct in 
all of our business activities. Acting ethically involves more than simply 
complying with laws and regulations; it involves recognition that our 
decisions affect others. By keeping this in mind, we aspire to earn the 
respect, trust and confidence of our stakeholders.
Anti-Corruption & Compliance
WHY IT MATTERS
Engaging in corruption or bribery is not only illegal but can permanently 
damage a company’s business relationships and workforce morale. 
Freeport recognizes that any violation of the United States Foreign Corrupt 
Practices Act (FCPA) or other anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws of the 
jurisdictions in which we operate could result in significant criminal or civil 
fines and penalties, litigation, loss of operating licenses or permits, as well as 
significant reputational damage.
OUR APPROACH
Freeport maintains zero tolerance for corruption of any kind, and we expect 
the same from our employees, contractors and suppliers. We do not obtain a 
business advantage through bribery, improper payments, kickbacks or any 
other illegal means. No employee or contractor may offer, pay, solicit or accept 
bribes in any form. 
Our Anti-Corruption Policy and Guidelines require compliance with the 
FCPA and other applicable laws of the countries and jurisdictions where 
we operate. In addition to our annual PBC training, we provide annual 
anti-corruption training for specific groups of employees using a risk-
based approach. For example, senior-level employees who may interact 
with government officials are required to complete the training. The online 
training course supplements our in-person classroom training programs to 
extend the reach of our overall compliance efforts.
In recognition of the potential legal and reputational liability that could 
result from actions of our business partners and contractors under the FCPA 
and other laws, the company operates an online due diligence platform, 
the Freeport Compliance eXchange (FCeX). FCeX is a survey-based 
software platform designed to assess risk in the areas of anti-corruption, 
international trade, human rights and responsible minerals sourcing. FCeX 
enhances our ability to identify, assess and mitigate compliance risks.
Annually, we perform company-wide program and risk assessments with 
assistance from our internal audit firm, Deloitte, to assess risk and plan for 
the following year’s audit strategy. Business controls resulting from periodic 
fraud risk assessments are tested and reviewed annually at our corporate 
offices as well as at PT-FI, Cerro Verde, El Abra and Atlantic Copper.
Freeport maintains zero 
tolerance for corruption of 
any kind, and we expect the 
same from our employees, 
contractors and suppliers.
COMPLIANCE LINE
Among other reporting mechanisms, Freeport maintains a Compliance 
Line to provide guidance and assistance to workforce members with 
any questions or concerns related to our PBC, policies or procedures. To 
encourage our workforce to report potential violations of business conduct, 
our Compliance Line enables anonymous reporting. The Compliance Line 
also is available to suppliers (including contractors) through our Supplier 
Code of Conduct.
During 2020, we received 270 reports through the Compliance Line relating 
to various topics, including employee workplace conduct, environment, 
health and safety, protecting company assets, and conflicts of interest. All 
reports are investigated and, if substantiated, the appropriate disciplinary 
action is taken, up to and including termination of employment.
INTEGRATING COMPLIANCE INTO OUR CULTURE 
Although our traditional compliance model was challenged 
as COVID-19 protocols limited in-person interactions, our 
compliance team found innovative ways to educate and connect 
with our workforce. As part of our bi-monthly compliance 
newsletters, we leveraged the expertise and comedic talent 
of Chicago’s Second City Works to bring short, funny videos to 
the global workforce. These two-minute live-action or cartoon 
shorts highlighted general compliance topics – such as the 
compliance hotline, protection of confidential information, 
proper use of social media and conflicts of interest – to help 
reinforce our compliance program, our core values and the right 
way of doing business. We believe making compliance relatable 
and part of our employees' daily routine promotes a strong 
ethical culture and creates consistency in decision-making. 
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  20
Responsible Value Chains
WHY IT MATTERS
Sourcing of goods and services can have significant impact across all areas 
of ESG risk. In recent years, human rights and environmental risks in supply 
chains have become a focus in the mining industry. In addition, automotive 
and electronics original equipment manufacturers have received significant 
pressure from shareholders and other stakeholders to improve due 
diligence in their supply chains, which is increasing expectations on 
minerals producers globally. Freeport is committed to sourcing responsibly 
across our supply chains wherever we do business. 
OUR APPROACH
Over 70% of the world’s copper is used in applications that deliver 
electricity. This makes copper a crucial contributor to the energy transition 
and a decarbonized world. As the energy transition continues, copper 
use is expected to increase in electric vehicles and their charging stations 
as well as renewable energy technologies, such as solar and wind, and 
the necessary connections for these technologies to grids. We believe 
increased copper demand should not come at a cost to sustainability. As 
one of the world’s largest copper producers, we work hard to responsibly 
deliver copper to our customers and markets around the world. We do this 
in three key ways: (1) identifying and mitigating risks in our supply chains 
through our own responsible sourcing efforts, (2) managing the risks 
of our products and by-products in use by ensuring these risks are well 
understood and managed, and (3) working to better understand the full life 
cycle impacts of our products along the value chain.
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING OF GOODS & SERVICES
Our Supplier Code of Conduct and compliance screening processes are the 
foundation of our responsible sourcing program for goods and services. 
Responsible sourcing of goods and services is led by our Global Supply 
Chain Sustainability Manager under the oversight of the SLT with support 
from the Human Rights Working Group. This work is a significant task, as it 
equates to over 20,000 suppliers that provide a wide variety of goods and 
services – from small catering businesses in remote locations to large multi-
nationals that produce heavy machinery. In 2020, we began implementation 
of an advanced risk and data-based responsible sourcing framework using 
a combination of tools in the contracting and supplier qualification process. 
The system enables both screening and advanced risk assessment, tracks 
supplier progress against any required action plans, and enables more 
direct collaboration with our suppliers throughout the contract life cycle. 
In 2020, we also prioritized increasing transparency in our local procurement 
spending to enhance visibility and to encourage increasing opportunities 
for local suppliers where feasible. For example, we joined WEConnect 
International, a global network that connects women-owned businesses to 
qualified buyers around the world, working to enable them to compete in the 
global marketplace. 
Our global supply chain team also worked with local suppliers when cleaning 
supplies and Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) became scarce during 
the onset of COVID-19. In Colorado, a collaboration with local sustainable 
distilleries produced a reliable and sustainable source of generic wipes and 
cleaning solutions. In Arizona, local hardware stores provided PPE such as 
face coverings. These examples demonstrate our commitment to support our 
local communities and the critical role they play in daily operations. 
DUE DILIGENCE TOOLS  
Freeport uses a combination of tools to help gather critical data on 
suppliers with regard to compliance, ESG and other related risks. The 
FCeX is the company’s online due diligence platform. This survey-based 
software platform is designed to assess risk in areas of anti-corruption, 
international trade and human rights. FCeX has enhanced our ability 
to identify, assess and mitigate compliance risks. In 2020, we added a 
Responsible Sourcing section to the survey to gather information from 
each supplier on their ESG programs, including sustainability-related 
management systems and certifications, human rights, health and 
safety, and environmental commitments, among others.  
In 2020, we also initiated implementing a software system, called Ariba 
Supplier Risk Management, that will be integrated into our central 
purchasing system. The new software enhances our supplier risk 
assessment using data from external sources – including operations, 
regulatory (anti-corruption and human rights), environmental and 
financial – and will provide more in-depth risk-based assessments 
through targeted questionnaires and audits. We will track these 
assessments and resulting actions, engagement and approvals for 
ongoing supplier life cycle management. This graphic describes the 
supplier life cycle process, and the Ariba platform will support us 
through each step.
SUPPLIER 
CODE OF
CONDUCT
MONITORING
DUE DILIGENCE
TRACKING 
PERFORMANCE 
& REPORTING
RISK
ASSESSMENT
REMEDIATION
SUPPLIER RISK
MANAGEMENT
The Ariba Supplier Risk Management system 
will monitor vendor risk throughout our 
relationship with suppliers.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  22
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING OF MINERALS & METALS
In 2019, we adopted and published our Responsible Sourcing of Minerals 
Policy, which commits the business to identifying and mitigating human 
rights violations in our supply chains of minerals and metals used in our 
downstream processing facilities. The Policy describes how we implement 
the OECD Guidelines on Mineral Supply Chains in Conflict-Affected and 
High-Risk Areas in our supply chain of minerals and metals. It is critical to 
address the requirements of the new London Metals Exchange Policy on 
Responsible Sourcing, where we trade several of our products. It is also 
a requirement of both the ICMM Mining Principles and the Copper Mark. 
We previously implemented a similar policy at our Kokkola cobalt refinery 
in Finland. In 2019 and 2020, we implemented the new policy across our 
copper business and smelter operations. We are working to implement it 
across our molybdenum operations in 2021.
To do this, we assess our incoming metal and mineral supply chains to 
identify potential “flags” with regard to what are defined as Annex II risks – 
such as bribery and corruption, human trafficking, and child or forced 
labor – by the OECD Guidelines. We then go through a risk-based due 
diligence process to help us better understand these “flags.” These results 
then are reviewed by the applicable internal committee and appropriate 
actions are taken. Actions can include working together with the supplier to 
identify and implement an action plan, termination or general collaboration 
to build capacity. In 2020, we conducted due diligence on several mineral 
suppliers. We also began collaborating with our key traders to improve risk 
identification and systems. We are one of the first base metals producers 
to publish an OECD Step 5 report for copper and molybdenum, providing a 
summary of our efforts in 2019 and early 2020, and we believe this level of 
transparency is critical for our industry partners to adopt. 
In 2020, Freeport played an important role in the development of a Base 
Metals Due Diligence Standard managed by the Copper Mark. The standard 
provides specific steps for base metal producers of copper, nickel, zinc, lead 
and cobalt to meet the OECD Guidelines and to aid in conformance with the 
LME’s forthcoming responsible sourcing commitments. The standard was 
published in February 2021 by the Copper Mark and its partners. 
UNDERSTANDING OUR PRODUCT FOOTPRINT
Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) provide an overview of environmental 
impacts across a product’s life cycle to enable decision makers to identify 
improvement opportunities and trade-offs. Globally, governments 
increasingly are using LCAs in Circular Economy frameworks and for carbon 
and water footprint comparisons of products and services. In early 2020, 
the International Copper Association (ICA) launched a project to update the 
current global LCA profile for copper concentrate and cathode. Freeport 
plays a key role in this study, providing data from our mining and refining 
facilities. However, the project was temporarily suspended in 2020 to enable 
producers to focus on COVID-19 adaptation. The project was relaunched 
in early 2021 and its focus expanded to include developing a methodology 
for the carbon footprint of copper. In addition, a project was re-initiated by 
the Copper Development Association (partner organization to ICA in North 
America) to conduct an LCA of copper rod used for electrical applications. 
Freeport will participate in both studies in 2021 and use the results to drive 
internal improvements (e.g., support climate strategy) and provide data to 
customers and other value-chain participants.
OECD 5-STEP FRAMEWORK1
Establish 
strong company 
management 
systems
Identify
& assess 
risk in the 
supply chain
Design & 
implement 
a strategy to 
respond to 
identified risks
Carry out 
independent 
third-party audit
of supply chain 
due diligence
Report annually
on supply chain 
due diligence
1
2
3
4
5
1	 www.OECD.org
Political Engagement
WHY IT MATTERS
Public policy decisions can significantly affect our operations, future 
business opportunities, employees, shareholders and the communities 
where we operate. Trade associations and other organizations provide 
information and assistance with policy issues of concern to us, and 
certain partnerships representing our best interests are invaluable to the 
advancement of the industry. 
OUR APPROACH 
Freeport is committed to the highest level of ethical and legal conduct 
regarding its political activity and spending practices, and to rigorous 
compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
We exercise our right and responsibility to participate in public policy 
matters by following public matters that are important to us and interacting, 
where appropriate, with elected and appointed government officials, 
regulators and their staff.
We are a member of various trade associations and other organizations. When 
we fund a trade association, we do so because we believe the association 
generally represents the company’s best interests, although importantly, we 
may not support an association’s position on every issue. For example, we do 
not delegate our voting power to trade associations or other organizations 
without completing our own due diligence on matters of importance.
In addition to operating in the United States, we have significant operations 
in Chile, Indonesia, Peru and Spain. We work cooperatively with local, 
regional and national governments wherever we have operations. From time 
to time, issues may arise in these jurisdictions that affect our operations. 
With agreement from senior management, we may engage in dialogue with 
government officials on issues that affect our business goals and objectives, 
and the jobs that are thereby created. We only engage in non-partisan political 
activity and spending outside of the United States as permitted by, and in strict 
compliance with, applicable laws and regulations, including the FCPA.
The company’s political activity and spending practices are overseen and 
approved by senior management. Annually, the Board’s CRC reviews our 
political activity and spending practices. Our political spending also is 
subject to legal review and external audit.
Our practice is to make information concerning all political contributions 
available to our stakeholders annually by posting our political contributions 
to the sustainability section of our website.
Freeport is committed to the 
highest level of ethical and legal 
conduct regarding its political 
activity and spending practices.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  24
Transparency of Government Payments
WHY IT MATTERS 
Our operations contribute significantly to national, regional and local 
development in jurisdictions where we conduct business through payments 
to host governments via taxes, royalties and other financial obligations. 
We believe that increased transparent disclosure of our natural resource 
revenues and payments to host governments promotes better governance and 
accountability regarding the distribution of natural resource industry revenues.
OUR APPROACH 
Freeport ’s tax strategy seeks to balance the economic considerations of our 
host governments and stakeholders with our business objectives. The Board’s 
Audit Committee provides ultimate oversight of our global tax strategy, and 
management of our tax strategy is conducted within the corporate finance 
group under the direction of our President and CFO. Tax risks are identified and 
monitored by a global team of tax professionals, which assists in executing our 
tax affairs in line with our strategy, PBC and internal control policies. We are 
committed to fully cooperating with all tax authorities and providing access 
to accounting and governance documentation as requested. 
We advocate for the development of fair and predictable tax laws in 
jurisdictions where we conduct business on issues that are important to our 
business and the industry.  
The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) is a global standard 
to promote transparent and accountable management of natural resources. 
We have endorsed and committed to support the EITI since 2008. Our 
support includes direct financial contributions as well as contributions 
through ICMM. We maintain significant mining operations in Indonesia 
and Peru, both of which are EITI-implementing countries, and we actively 
support and participate in associated in-country processes.
In addition to our country-level EITI commitments and regulatory reporting 
obligations, our practice is to provide transparency by voluntarily reporting 
cash payments to governments in all jurisdictions where we conduct 
business, as presented in the table below.
CASH PAYMENTS TO GOVERNMENTS1
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 
DECEMBER 31, 2020 ($ MILLIONS)
U.S.
CHILE
PERU
INDONESIA
OTHER 
COUNTRIES²
TOTAL
Corporate Income Taxes, Net of Refunds
($ 216)
$ 2 
$ 5 
$ 155 
$ 7 
($ 47)
Withholding Taxes on Foreign Dividends
$ 1 
$ 1 
-  
$ 4 
-  
$ 6 
Employee Payroll Taxes3
$ 337 
$ 10 
$ 51 
$ 69 
$ 28 
$ 495 
Dividends
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
Royalties & Net Severance Taxes
$ 22 
-  
$ 24 
$ 132 
-  
$ 178 
Property Taxes
$ 72 
-  
-  
$ 68 
$ 2 
$ 142 
Other Taxes & Fees4
$ 48 
$ 9 
$ 48 
$ 171 
($ 12)
$ 264 
Total
$ 264 
$ 22 
$ 128 
$ 599 
$ 25 
$ 1,038 
1	 This schedule reflects a voluntary effort by FCX to capture its cash payments to governments (net of refunds). Amounts presented do not reflect payments on assessment under dispute. Amounts presented reflect credits from prior years, as applicable.
2	 Represents cash payments to governments by FCX's other business groups that are located outside of the countries where FCX conducts its primary operations.
3	 Includes payroll taxes collected on behalf of employees and paid to governments.
4	 Includes customs and export duties, as well as withholding tax on foreign services.
Protecting our people is 
safeguarding our business.
Company sites around the world joined the COVID-19 pandemic relief effort. Cerro Verde 
donated oxygen tanks and an oxygen generating plant to hospitals in Arequipa, Peru. 
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  26
People
People are at the core of our business. We are deeply committed to 
supporting the health, safety and well-being of our people, which was 
further emphasized as the COVID-19 pandemic created unprecedented 
challenges for our workforce and their families, our host communities and 
indigenous neighbors, and society at large. 
In response to the pandemic, we implemented wide-ranging 
COVID-19 mitigation protocols at each of our operating sites, following 
the recommendations of global health organizations and our Medical 
Director, including face coverings, physical distancing, travel 
restrictions, sanitizing, and frequent testing and monitoring. At many 
of our sites, we obtained specialized medical equipment and set up 
quarantine and isolation facilities. 
To support our employees and their families, we adjusted our policies for 
sick leave and other pay practices. We also implemented a policy to allow 
those employees who can work remotely to do so. We remain committed to 
maintaining health benefits and offer guidance resources to support mental 
and physical well-being. 
In our host communities, we worked to understand our stakeholders’ 
needs and provided continued access to the company through new 
communications channels in a world that quickly shifted to virtual and 
socially distanced interactions. Across our communities, we provided 
monetary support and in-kind contributions of medical supplies and food. 
We collaborated with partner organizations, medical institutions, charities 
and local governments to provide additional guidance, resources and 
support to our stakeholders.  
Despite the unquestionable hardships and difficulties brought on by the 
pandemic, our workforce emerged more flexible, innovative and agile. Even 
with the forced distance, in many ways we are more connected to each other 
and to our stakeholders. Looking ahead, we remain focused on managing 
the ongoing pandemic, and we aim to leverage our learnings, enhanced 
connections and partnerships to support our workforce and stakeholders. 
Freeport understands its global workforce and host communities are the 
foundation of its success.
Health & Safety
WHY IT MATTERS
Mining by its nature is associated with high-risk work that must be carefully understood and managed. On a daily basis, 
our workforce engages in activities such as drilling and blasting rock, operating heavy machinery, using chemicals, 
working with high-voltage electricity, working at heights, working with high-temperature materials as well as other 
complex tasks. Our highest priority is the health, safety and well-being of our employees, contractors, suppliers and the 
communities where we operate. We understand the safety of our workforce is critical to our operational success and 
efficiency and ultimately to our ability to deliver long-term value to our stakeholders.
OUR APPROACH 
Safety is the foundation of our sustainability approach and is one of our core values. Our objective is to achieve zero 
workplace fatalities and to decrease injuries and occupational illnesses. We are committed to creating a safe and 
healthy workplace and providing the training, tools and resources needed so our workforce can identify risks and 
consistently apply effective controls. We share information and key learnings about potentially fatal events, near 
misses and best practices throughout the company and engage with industry peers to continuously improve our 
health and safety performance. 
We rolled out our 2020 Safe Production Matters strategy, which aims to align global priorities, empower safe work 
behaviors and strengthen our safety culture. Our principal focus is on the prevention of fatalities and high-risk incidents, 
which we manage by using data and technology combined with behavioral science principles. Other key focus areas 
include the elimination of systemic root causes and optimization of health and safety resources across our business. 
Our Vice President of Health and Safety oversees safety in the organization, including implementation of company-
wide initiatives, safety audit programs and incident investigations. Safety performance is reported regularly to 
executive management, and we review and discuss all fatalities with the CRC and the Board. The CRC provides input 
on the overall direction of Freeport’s health and safety programs and also reviews adherence to our safety and health 
policy, safety statistics and trends, and incident reports.
Policies & Programs
›	 Safety and Health Policy — States our commitments, processes and management systems to meet our health 
and safety objectives.
›	 Contractor Health and Safety Manual — Defines the minimum expectations and requirements for contractors 
working at our operations.
›	 Occupational Health and Safety Management System — Our framework for managing risks and compliance 
obligations is certified in accordance to OHSAS 18001. We are in the process of migrating to the new ISO 
45001 Health and Safety Management System, which will be completed company-wide in 2021.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  28
COVID-19 RESPONSE & MANAGEMENT
We started 2020 focused on implementing our Safe Production Matters 
strategy. However, in early 2020, the team pivoted quickly in response to the 
COVID-19 pandemic to support our global operations while managing the 
strategy rollout in parallel. 
In response to the pandemic, we created a cross-functional team comprised 
of company leaders to help the company navigate COVID-19-related 
challenges. Together with this team, our Vice President of Health and Safety 
and our Medical Director developed and implemented COVID-19 mitigation 
protocols to protect our employees, our communities and our business. 
This included providing frequent and timely information to educate, equip 
and protect our workforce.  
Typically, the health and safety team travels to our sites regularly to 
support local program implementation and best practices. Due to 
COVID-19, virtual communication among the team and our sites became 
a common practice and strengthened over time. Safety team members 
located on site continued to monitor operations from the field, while 
corporate health and safety team members largely communicated 
virtually. Although the team prefers to meet in-person in the office or at 
the sites, the health and safety team was able to continue supporting 
sites with the implementation of our Safe Production Matters strategy. 
Audits of our operations were performed remotely, safety concerns were 
communicated effectively, and importantly, analysis and mitigation of 
large-scale risks inherent to mining, such as catastrophic risks, continued 
throughout 2020. 
Protecting our workforce
Supporting our local communities
Maintaining resiliency and value
FATAL RISK MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
Our Fatal Risk Management (FRM) program is aimed at achieving our objective of zero workplace fatalities by focusing 
on preventative measures. As part of the program, we seek to identify potentially fatal risks in the field and apply 
the controls most critical for avoidance. We have identified 23 potentially fatal risks common to some or all of our 
operations and have embedded critical controls across our operations to help manage them. 
Our FRM program is underpinned by our Safe Production Matters strategy and our culture of leading by example at all 
levels of the organization. We expect all employees to take ownership of their own safety and the safety of their co-workers 
and the community around them. Our frontline supervisors play a vital role in reviewing assigned tasks for each shift and 
assisting crew members with identifying potentially fatal risks, helping to ensure everyone on the job is engaged and 
understands the hazards and required critical controls. Anyone on the job is expected to stop work immediately if they 
observe that critical controls are missing or ineffective or if they believe an unsafe working condition exists. 
We regularly verify and audit our critical controls to assess their proper use and effectiveness. Critical control 
verifications help us review high-risk tasks to ensure controls are in place and effective and provide leading indicator 
data to strengthen our FRM program as well as our overall health and safety system. We have a mobile platform 
available to assist field supervisors through a critical control checklist. The checklist captures variances with our 
critical controls and allows us to create action plans to address gaps.
To facilitate learning from any fatal or potentially fatal event and to help prevent reoccurrence, we conduct an 
investigation that includes a thorough root cause analysis for every incident. We also review findings with senior 
management and site senior leadership to understand what happened, take corrective action as appropriate, and 
discuss opportunities for company-wide learnings and improvements. Finally, we review and discuss all fatalities 
with the Board and the CRC.
PERFORMANCE
We measure our safety performance through regularly established benchmarks, including our company-wide Total 
Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) that includes both employees and contractors. In 2020, our Freeport workforce 
worked 121 million hours and recorded 418 reportable injuries during the year, compared with 142 million hours and 
528 reportable injuries in 2019. Our 2020 TRIR was 0.69 per 200,000 man-hours worked, meeting our 0.70 target for 
the year and reflecting a decrease from 0.74 in 2019.
Fatal Events
Regrettably, five fatalities occurred at our PT-FI operations in Indonesia. We strive to have a strong culture of safety 
at all levels of our organization and across all our sites, however these fatalities underscore that we must do better. 
Our objective remains zero fatalities.  
In response to the fatalities at PT-FI during 2020, there are broad efforts underway involving senior leadership across 
the organization, including an intense focus on expanding FRM efforts in 2021. PT-FI’s Safety Board, comprised of senior 
leadership and technical experts, established new metrics-based performance expectations for all leaders with clear 
expectations for enhancing the FRM program. 
2020 WORKPLACE FATALITIES
February 2020
A vehicle operator was fatally injured 
after losing control of their vehicle.
Contractor
May 2020
A vehicle operator was fatally injured 
after losing control of their vehicle. 
Employee
October 2020
One operator was fatally injured after 
leaning out from the cabin of their 
equipment and accidently hitting the 
control, causing it to articulate and 
pin the operator between the cab and 
the door. 
Contractor
November 2020
An environmental crew member was 
fatally injured when an explosion 
occurred on a small survey vessel 
during a gasoline leak repair.
Contractor
December 2020
A rock fall protection team member 
fatally fell from a temporary walkway 
while mitigating landslide risk.
Employee

Additionally, the PT-FI Safety Board established targets for increasing the 
frequency and number of critical control field verifications related to fatal risks 
to support leaders in driving accountability. PT-FI is integrating an enhanced 
mobile FRM application where critical control verifications are entered in the 
field in real-time, facilitating prompt response to identified deficiencies. 
PT-FI has developed an upgraded contractor screening process, and in 2021, 
will be applying it to existing and newly established contractors to verify that 
they meet health and safety performance expectations. 
Following the death or serious injury of one of our employees, we initiate 
multiple steps of care after the initial emergency response and provide 
assistance for the employee’s family. When an employee is seriously injured, 
the company provides support to the employee and his or her family members 
during the employee’s medical treatment. In the case of a workplace fatality, 
we assist with funeral arrangements as appropriate. In addition, senior 
leadership reviews the evaluation of each incident  to determine compensation 
for the family, irrespective of liability and in addition to local requirements. We 
encourage our contractors to approach these types of incidents in a similar 
manner and, depending on the facts and circumstances, we are involved in 
providing or supplementing contractor assistance.
High Risk Events 
In 2020, the percentage of high-risk safety incidents continued to trend 
downward, reflecting our sharp focus on workplace tasks with the highest 
potential consequences in line with our Safe Production Matters strategy. 
Although implementing critical controls has helped to minimize risk and prevent 
fatalities, we have opportunities for improvement. 
To better understand and define the spectrum of our high-risk recordable 
incidents, in 2017, we expanded our risk matrix to include “actionable” or 
“monitor” ratings categories for high-risk events. While we have always been 
focused on high-risk events, this change resulted in elevating more incidents to 
a higher level, which resulted in increased action items and monitoring of critical 
controls to help prevent reoccurrence. This explains the increase in high-risk 
events in 2017 and the subsequent improvement in the years that followed; the 
action items implemented and monitoring programs have led to the continued 
decrease in the number of high-risk incidents.
In 2020, we enhanced our root cause analysis program and established 
dedicated team members to support robust root cause analysis practices 
and learnings at our sites globally, incorporating subject matter experts 
from each site to drive the action plans across the company. 
TOTAL RECORDABLE EVENTS (% HIGH RISK1)
50+92+44+44+28
25%
20%
15%
10%
5%
0
13%
23%
11%
11%
7%
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
1	 Our Sustainable Development Risk Matrix defines 
high-risk events as incidents that have the potential 
to result in a permanent disability or a fatality.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  30
HEALTH & SAFETY PERFORMANCE DATA
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
Total Recordable Events
459
433
466
528
418
% High Risk1
13%
23%
11%
11%
7%
Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)2
0.71
0.75
0.71
0.74
0.69
TRIR Annual Target
0.56
0.63
 0.70 
0.73
0.70
Number of Fatalities
6
5
1
3
5
1	 Our Sustainable Development Risk Matrix defines high-risk events as incidents that have the potential to result in 
permanent disabilities or a fatality.
2	 TRIR = [(Fatalities + Lost-time Incidents + Restricted Duty Incidents + Medical Treatment) x 200,000] / Total Hours 
Worked. TRIR presented here may differ from reported TRIR in FCX's Form 10-K filings because data have been 
adjusted to exclude disposed assets for comparison purposes.
Note: Above safety statistics include both employees and contractors at all of our locations. We define total recordable
incidents according to the requirements of the U.S. Department of Labor’s Mine Safety and Health Administration.
SUPPORTING A SAFE TRANSITION TO UNDERGROUND AT PT-FI
In 2020, PT-FI transitioned all mining operations underground following completion of the open pit. PT-FI trains and educates all underground 
employees on underground hazards, risk controls and safety procedures to prepare them to safely and efficiently perform their assigned work. 
The training begins in surface classrooms and progresses to on-the-job training and competency verification in underground work areas. Health 
and safety training is refreshed at least annually for all underground employees, and management of potentially fatal risks is emphasized at all 
levels, from pre-task crew discussions and risk control checklists, to line management verifying that critical controls are in place and effective, 
to senior leaders verifying that the risk management system is effective.  
PT-FI invests significant effort and resources into proactive management of the safety and health risks that exist in underground operations, including: 
›	 Autonomous and remote-operated equipment to reduce workforce exposure to ground failure, wet muck spills and air contaminants. 
›	 A comprehensive Ground Control Management Plan developed by industry leading geotechnical experts that specifies critical controls and 
drives continual improvement in ground support designs, practices and geotechnical monitoring systems. Controls routinely are verified for 
their effectiveness by PT-FI's Underground Steering Committee comprised of underground mine Vice Presidents and Senior Management and 
subject matter experts in geotechnical engineering, mining engineering and safety.
›	 Underground fire prevention and preparedness plans overseen by PT-FI’s Underground Fire Committee control of combustible materials; 
extensive fire suppression systems on mobile equipment, shops and conveyor systems; emergency warning systems; firefighting teams and 
equipment; and refuge stations to provide shelter and clean air for personnel if an underground fire were to occur. 
PT-FI's experience managing risks associated with large-scale 
underground block caving in Indonesia extends over four decades.
KNOWN COMMUNITY & INDIRECT FATALITIES
In an effort to develop a more holistic understanding of the health and safety 
impacts of our mining activities beyond our boundaries and operational 
control, starting in 2020, we are disclosing known community and indirect 
fatalities. Ultimately, our goal is to positively contribute to the improved 
health and safety of the people in our host communities and supply chains 
by supporting their efforts to avoid re-occurrence of these incidents.
During 2020, there were 16 known community and indirect fatalities, 
including four offsite transportation-related fatalities, two security-related 
fatalities near PT-FI, and nine fatalities associated with illegal artisanal 
mining at PT-FI where panners seek unrecovered gold in our controlled 
riverine tailings system. 
There is no standard definition of known community and indirect fatalities. 
For purposes of our initial reporting, we have included non-occupational 
related fatalities that occurred within our area of operations, fatalities 
related to security events in our communities, fatalities associated with 
mining activities that occurred offsite and outside of our control within the 
communities where we operate (such as transportation), and fatalities 
associated with illegal artisanal mining. As a member of ICMM, we are 
actively engaged in discussions to develop a guideline for consistent 
industry disclosures on this topic.
For more information on our management of security events and our 
implementation of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, 
please refer to the human rights section of this report and our annual report 
to the Voluntary Principles Plenary available on our website. 
ARTISANAL MINING IN PAPUA 
At our PT-FI operations in Indonesia, illegal artisanal miners seek 
unrecovered gold from our milling operations by panning in our 
controlled riverine tailings system. On average, approximately 4,500 
artisanal miners are in the Lowlands and 750 are in the Highlands. 
About 65% of Lowlands artisanal miners come from outside Papua, 
while the Highlands artisanal miners are predominantly from tribes 
from the central Highlands of Papua.
Artisanal mining in the area is illegal. However, artisanal miners set up 
working camps at various points along the controlled riverine tailings 
system. Many do not have expertise operating in hazardous conditions 
including remote terrain and varied climatic conditions. There are 
additional safety challenges with PT-FI’s ongoing levee maintenance 
and earthworks necessary to responsibly manage the controlled 
riverine system.
PT-FI’s community liaison officers and third-party contractors in the 
field proactively socialize any operational changes with the artisanal 
miners in an effort to manage their expectations and encourage them to 
seek alternative livelihoods and to minimize risks to the operations and 
to the panners themselves. PT-FI also informs the artisanal miners in 
advance of planned maintenance to minimize safety risks. The potential 
use of mercury by illegal artisanal miners remains a concern, and 
PT-FI conducts regular monitoring for mercury use through its routine 
environmental monitoring programs.
PT-FI cannot address illegal artisanal mining on its own; a multi-
faceted approach including government cooperation, security 
risk management, stakeholder engagement and socioeconomic 
development for alternative livelihoods is essential.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  32
Workforce
WHY IT MATTERS
Freeport believes a diverse, inclusive and representative workforce offers a broad range of experience, knowledge, 
background, culture and heritage, which can drive innovation, enhance our operational performance and improve 
our relationships with stakeholders. Our people are our greatest asset and our competitive advantage. Maintaining 
a skilled, stable and diverse workforce in the mining industry can be challenging due to the cyclical nature of mining 
tied to commodity price fluctuations, geographically remote operations, shifting local demographics, technological 
advances that are changing the way we work, and competition for talent from both inside and outside of the industry.
OUR APPROACH
Freeport operates in regions of varying ethnic, religious and cultural backgrounds, and we often are the largest 
employer in our host communities. The key to our success is the ability to recruit, retain, develop and advance 
talented employees with diverse perspectives. We focus on attracting and retaining talented people by offering 
quality employment with fair and equitable compensation and benefits as well as opportunities for professional 
development and growth. We are committed to fostering a culture that is safety-focused, respectful, inclusive and 
representative of the communities where we operate. 
Our PBC, Human Rights Policy, Supplier Code of Conduct, Inclusion and Diversity Policy, Social Performance Policy, 
and other core policies outline our company culture, our commitment to doing what’s right, and the expectations for 
all employees and contractors. These global policies are publicly available and translated in the local languages 
of the regions where we operate, and it is our expectation that our workforce understands and complies with our 
trainings, policies and procedures.
PERFORMANCE
At the end of 2020, Freeport’s global workforce was comprised of approximately 24,500 employees and 33,800 
contractors. Our overall workforce decreased from the prior year counts of 27,500 employees and 40,600 
contractors largely due to operational changes made as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Our total employee 
turnover rate increased to 15% in 2020 from 9% in 2019, which was largely driven by North America where we 
offered Voluntary Separation Programs (VSP) in response to uncertain economic conditions related to the pandemic.  
45+27+23+5+J
GLOBAL WORKFORCE
(As of December 31, 2020)
North America	
46%
Indonesia	
26%
South America	
23%
Europe / Other	
5%
EMPLOYEES
(Approximately 24,500)
62+26+10+2+J
Indonesia	
62%
North America	
26%
South America	
10%
Europe / Other	
2%
CONTRACTORS
(Approximately 33,800)
LABOR RELATIONS
We recognize and respect the rights of our employees, including rights to 
freedom of association and collective bargaining, without interference or 
fear of retaliation, and prohibit forced, compulsory or child labor and human 
trafficking. We do not tolerate any form of harassment or discrimination 
against individuals based on race, color, sex, religion, national origin, 
disability, age, veteran’s status or any other characteristic protected by 
applicable law. 
During 2020, we continued to maintain positive and collaborative 
relationships with unions representing our employees, working 
cooperatively with 15 unions in seven locations worldwide. Approximately 
38% of our global employee population is covered by a collective labor 
agreement (CLA). Our operations in Indonesia, Europe 
and South America are all covered by a minimum of 66% representation. 
While our North American workforce is not represented by unions, our 
hourly employees elect to work directly with company management 
rather than through union representation using our Guiding Principles 
agreement, which outlines how we work together within the values of the 
company to achieve our collective goals. Updated in 2019 with input from 
employees, the Guiding Principles include a problem-solving process 
that complements our broader employee grievance mechanism and adds 
significant value to both our workforce and the company. 
We openly engage with our employee and union leadership to negotiate 
and uphold labor agreements, recognizing that prolonged strikes or other 
work stoppages can adversely affect our business, our workforce and 
regional stakeholders. Although there were no formal strikes or lockouts 
at any of our operations in 2020, in the third quarter, we experienced a 
five-day, labor-related work stoppage due to COVID-19 travel restrictions 
when a group of workers at PT-FI staged protests and a blockade 
restricting access to the main road to the mining operations area. We 
quickly reached an amicable resolution with the group of workers, while 
upholding our COVID-19 safety protocols.
EMPLOYEES UNDER COLLECTIVE 
LABOR AGREEMENTS IN 2020
73+67+66+0
73%
67%
66%
0%
38% FCX 
Global Average
80%
60%
40%
20%
0%
Indonesia
Europe / Other 
      FCX Global
North America
South America
Our workforce seeks to collaborate as one Freeport. Photo 
captured pre-COVID-19 near our Safford operations in Arizona.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  34
ORGANIZATIONAL & CULTURE TRANSFORMATION
In 2020, Freeport advanced a process to enhance our organizational structure and promote a high-performance 
culture designed to meet the needs of our business today and beyond. The COVID-19 pandemic radically shifted our 
traditional organizational systems and means of working and collaborating. In many ways, the pandemic amplified 
our focus on the need for, and receptivity to, innovation across all facets of our business, particularly in how we 
communicate, engage and collaborate across our global workforce in a virtual environment. 
To support our workforce transformation, engagement and ongoing talent development, we strengthened our 
Human Resources department in 2020 and established two new positions: Chief Human Resources Officer and Vice 
President – Transformation and Organizational Development, which maintain specific responsibility for inclusion and 
diversity efforts.
The company began implementing the values and principles of an agile workplace in early 2019 at select sites in North 
America. Recognizing the momentum the agile approach created and the new challenges COVID-19 presented, we 
accelerated our focus on prioritizing a flexible, highly engaged workforce across the broader organization. 
In 2020, we completed a value impact assessment of the human resources functions and advanced our digital 
collaboration efforts. We also conducted a detailed analysis of an employee Organizational Health Index (OHI) survey 
conducted in the Americas in late 2019 and early 2020. The survey results identified opportunities for improvement 
in the areas of leadership development, employee development and skills training, and employee engagement and 
motivation, including performance targets and transparency, and has helped inform our priorities going forward. 
As part of this transformation effort, informed in part by the OHI survey results and employee feedback, we developed 
and rolled out Freeport Edge to support a high-performance culture. 
Freeport Edge behaviors are about leveraging new ways of working that can help build a competitive advantage 
and promote a high-performance culture. It emphasizes the importance of aiming high by setting bold targets, 
challenging the status quo, collaborating as one, inclusive Freeport, and motivating and energizing our people at all 
levels of the organization by empowering them to be engaged to act and speak up. 
We accelerated our focus on prioritizing 
a flexible, highly engaged workforce 
across the broader organization.
FREEPORT EDGE BEHAVIORS
AIM HIGH
PURSUE VALUE
COLLABORATE AS
ONE FREEPORT
EMPOWERED 
TO ACT
DEVELOP & COACH
OUR PEOPLE
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  36
TALENT DEVELOPMENT & TRAINING 
We are committed to ongoing training and development of our workforce. 
We understand ongoing career and skill development through training 
and education is critical to help ensure we have the right people with 
the necessary skills to deliver on our business strategy today and well 
into the future. 
In 2021, our Human Resources roadmap includes plans to focus on 
enhancing several critical pillars to support Freeport Edge, including 
performance management and recognition, skills development training 
and career progression, and succession planning.   
Regular, ongoing and timely feedback, often in an informal setting, is critical 
to the success of Freeport Edge behaviors. The structure of performance 
feedback currently varies among locations, job categories and workforce 
agreements. In 2021, the human resources team will be focused on 
enhancing our formal performance management processes and establishing 
more consistent formal feedback processes between employee and 
supervisor, while continuing to promote our informal feedback and dialogue 
culture. For unionized employees, we will continue to follow local protocols 
to make the connection between employee skills and competencies with 
business performance.
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT
A primary goal of Freeport Edge is to have more people feel 
connected and aligned with our high-performance culture. We 
proactively communicate information to our employees. The 
feedback we receive through employee engagement, such as the 
OHI survey, helps us better understand our impact, assess emerging 
issues and address concerns in a timely manner. 
Even as many of our employees worked remotely during 2020, 
Freeport Edge behaviors were promoted through various 
communications channels, including our company intranet, social 
media and online collaboration tools, digital signage at sites, employee 
magazines, videos, surveys, and virtual townhalls – all of which 
encouraged employees to engage meaningfully and consistently. 
We established unified virtual weekly meetings for company leaders 
to share current initiatives and discuss best leadership practices, 
and we conducted strategic planning sessions virtually. Sites and 
corporate functions identified culture and communications leads 
to pioneer these efforts, drive conversations and provide training 
to change how we engage and communicate with our people.  We 
established a pulse-check program to measure progress against our 
baseline. We encourage regular pulse checks, or check-ins, to reveal 
invaluable insights into our workplace that can help inform action 
plans to strengthen our workplace and high-performance culture.   
TALENT DEVELOPMENT FRAMEWORK
Our People
Skill Building
Career Progression
Organizational Development
Strategic Direction
Performance 
& Recognition
1
3
4
5
2
INCLUSION & DIVERSITY
Inclusion and diversity has been a priority for the company for many years 
and has been integrated as a fundamental part of Freeport Edge behaviors. 
In 2020, as part of our broader organizational development efforts and 
Freeport Edge rollout, we made several advancements aimed at refocusing 
and strengthening the governance, resourcing and strategic direction of our 
global inclusion and diversity program, including the following: 
›	 Established a dedicated human resources team to focus solely on 
inclusion and diversity initiatives.
›	 Formalized and published a new standalone Inclusion and Diversity 
Policy to specifically outline our expectations for behavior for 
promoting an inclusive culture and workforce, available in local 
languages on our website. 
›	 Created a cross-functional Inclusion and Diversity Steering 
Committee, sponsored by our President and CFO and including 
senior representatives from human resources, legal, operations, 
administration and finance teams, that meets on a quarterly basis 
to help guide the strategy and direction of our inclusion and 
diversity team.
In 2020, we continued to enhance our tracking and disclosure of various 
diversity metrics, an effort we plan to build upon in 2021. During the year, 
we launched initiatives to help ensure the global availability of PPE to 
accommodate different shapes, sizes and genders. We increased visibility 
into job openings across the organization and promoted the use of inclusive 
language and graphics in our official communications. We also began 
facilitating information sharing of best practices and lessons learned, 
and we collaborated on inclusion and diversity efforts across our global 
sites. For example, our El Abra team implemented Chile’s voluntary gender 
equality and work-life balance ordinance in 2020 and shared findings from 
that effort with our PT-FI team in Indonesia.   
Diversity & Local Hiring 
Freeport is committed to fostering a culture that is inclusive and representative 
of the communities where we operate. One of our greatest opportunities 
to contribute to our host communities is through local employment and 
capacity building. Local employment directly contributes to the economic 
and social development of surrounding communities. Moreover, hiring locally 
incorporates local cultures and knowledge into our company, which can 
strengthen our programs and enhance our global inclusion and diversity 
through increased awareness, understanding and perspectives. We believe 
varied workforce perspectives throughout our organization make us stronger. 
46+54+J
NORTH
AMERICA 98+2+J
INDONESIA 22+66+12+J
GLOBAL
 BY AGE 99+1+J
GLOBAL 
BY NATIONALITY
47% Racially or 
Ethnically Diverse
98% Indonesian 
Nationals
1%
Expatriates
22% 
Over 50
12% 
Under 30
40% Indigenous 
Papuan
99% In-Country 
Nationals
66% Between
30-50
GLOBAL EMPLOYEES (as of December 31, 2020)
Note: Figures exclude contractors
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  38
Hiring locally is a commitment we make to our host communities. It is from 
this context that we must tailor our approach to inclusion and diversity — by 
all definitions — across our global business. We aspire for the diversity of 
our global workforce to reflect the diversity of the communities where we 
operate. In North America, 47% of our employee base is racially or ethnically 
diverse, including 40% Hispanic representation and 4% self-identified 
Native Americans / Alaskan Natives. In Indonesia, 98% of our PT-FI 
employee base is Indonesian, 40% of whom are Papuan. 
Most people employed at our operations are host country nationals. We 
retain expatriate expertise for managerial and technical roles only when 
certain expert skills are not available in local communities. Expatriates and 
inpatriates receive cultural training upon their arrival to a new location. 
On average, expats represent less than 1% of people employed at our 
operations globally.
As we move forward, enhanced communications, collaboration, job 
opportunities and talent sharing across our sites will help us leverage 
the unique perspectives and local knowledge that exists within our 
organization. We will be considering ways to collect and gather the most 
meaningful data for each of our operations. We also will seek ways to 
encourage and promote job opportunities for our indigenous communities 
and other underrepresented minority groups across the organization, and 
we will focus on engaging with and encouraging our contractors to employ 
diverse and representative candidates.  
Freeport welcomes all cultures and perspectives into our 
workforce; here, two members of our workforce pray at our 
mosque located inside of the underground mining complex at 
PT-FI's operations in Indonesia (photo capture pre-COVID-19). 
Gender Diversity
Gender diversity continues to be an important focus for Freeport. We believe 
that progressing an inclusive workplace culture that extends beyond our 
operational boundaries and into our communities is a critical driver to 
attracting, promoting and retaining top female talent.
At year-end 2020, women represented 33% of our Board of Directors, 13% 
of our global workforce and 22% of new hires in 2020. Our percentage 
of women in executive management and management-level positions 
increased to 13% in both categories, from 11% and 12%, respectively. 
During the year, we achieved a cumulative milestone in our global women’s 
empowerment programs of reaching more than 100,000 women with 
education and training that positioned them for additional employment 
and advancement opportunities across our value chain and outside of the 
company. Refer to the Communities section of this report for more about our 
work to support and enhance gender diversity in our communities.
The percentage of women in our global workforce remained at 13% in 2020. 
Female representation ranges widely across our geographies, as high as 
18% in North America and as low as 6% in Peru. 
Our gender representation target remains at 15% women comprising our 
global workforce. Unfortunately, in 2020, female representation decreased 
in the Americas, partly driven by higher turnover at our North American 
corporate offices, which has a higher concentration of women than our 
operating sites, and at our operations in Peru, where retaining women in 
the workforce during the COVID-19 pandemic was particularly challenging 
due to familial roles. As a result, our 2020 global employee attrition rate 
was 22% among women versus 14% among men, further indicating we have 
room for improvement.
Part of our work moving forward is to better understand the specific regional 
contexts and drivers behind the lower numbers of women in these regions 
and to find ways to support inclusivity through capacity building, resilience, 
skills, knowledge and career development opportunities as well as finding 
ways to support our people outside the workplace. While inclusion and 
diversity issues take time to identify and resolve, our organizational and 
workforce transformation and the rollout of Freeport Edge focuses on 
addressing these challenges, increasing overall employee engagement and 
satisfaction, and finding ways to retain our female talent.  
WOMEN IN LEADERSHIP POSITIONS (%)
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
Board of Directors
25%
25%
40%
33%
33%
Executive Management
11%
8%
10%
11%
13%
Management
11%
11%
12%
12%
13%
Non-Management
10%
12%
13%
13%
13%
Total Employees
10%
12%
13%
13%
13%
Note: Figures exclude contractors and are as of year-end.
90+55+30+35+90
20%
15%
10%
5%
0
18%
11%
6%
7%
18%
2020 WOMEN EMPLOYED BY LOCATION (%)
North America
Chile
Peru
Indonesia
Europe / Other
FCX Global
13% FCX 
Global Average
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  40
FAIR & EQUAL REMUNERATION PRACTICES 
Our approach to compensation and benefits is market-based and competitive 
and informed by annual benchmarking and analysis. We are committed to 
respecting the rights of our workforce, including paying fair and equal wages. 
This includes equal pay for equal work and compensation levels that support 
the acquisition of the goods and services necessary for an average-size family 
to meet their basic needs in the geographic locations where we operate. 
In early 2021, we partnered with BSR, a global sustainability non-profit, 
to conduct a living wage assessment for both full-time and part-time 
employees at 14 of our operating and processing sites in the U.S., Chile, 
Peru and Indonesia. BSR’s living wage benchmark exceeds the minimum 
country wage in all 14 locations assessed. The analysis found that of the 
more than 21,000 employees in these locations, all employees met BSR’s 
living wage benchmark for their respective locations. We plan to complete 
the assessment for the remainder of our direct employees later in the 
year and integrate the assessment into our annual compensation review 
processes across our global operations. We also will seek to extend our 
living wage commitment to our on-site contractors in the future.   
In addition to living wage, we also are committed to providing equal pay for 
equal work regardless of gender, race or ethnicity. We periodically conduct 
internal compensation reviews to identify possible pay gaps which cannot be 
explained through performance, distribution of jobs, experience, time in role and 
other related factors. To further our commitment to provide equal pay for equal 
work and to support our global inclusion and diversity efforts, we have engaged 
a third-party compensation consultant to support a formal, comprehensive 
evaluation of our gender pay equity practices covering our global operations.   
We are committed to providing fair 
and equal pay for equal work 
regardless of gender, race or ethnicity.
EL ABRA IMPLEMENTS CHILEAN GENDER EQUALITY CERTIFICATION
Our El Abra operation implemented Chile’s voluntary gender equality 
and work-life balance ordinance to enhance gender equality in the 
workplace through various measures. For example, the site reviewed 
equal pay, enclosed changing rooms, installed independently 
partitioned sanitation facilities, trained employees on managing 
unconscious bias, provided PPE designed specifically for women, 
added inclusive language and graphics to formal communications, 
and confirmed equal gender representation on hiring panels. A third-
party audit of the management system was conducted in 2019, and the 
certification officially was awarded in 2020, making El Abra the first 
private mining company to receive this certification in Chile.
Communities
WHY IT MATTERS
The relationship between a mine and nearby communities is dynamic. 
Mining is an inherently cyclical business with production levels and 
profits fluctuating over the life of the mine. While many of Freeport’s 
assets are long-lived, mining resources are finite. We aim to support 
our host communities during the entire life cycle of the mine, not only by 
managing and mitigating our impacts, but also by providing sustainable 
benefits that will exceed the lifespan of our operations. Further, increasing 
automation and shifts in the global economy are changing mining methods, 
processes and labor requirements. Collectively, these challenges make it 
increasingly important for mining companies to work collaboratively with 
local communities to support them in developing the necessary skills and 
capabilities to adapt and succeed over the long term.
OUR APPROACH
Freeport works actively through engagement, investment and partnership 
activities to support host communities in maximizing the social and 
economic benefits of mining. Our work is focused on supporting our 
communities to develop the requisite skills to successfully adapt to 
technological and economic changes in the future to reduce their 
dependency on mining over the long term. By partnering to increase both 
individual and institutional capabilities, we help create increasing resiliency, 
allowing communities to better weather and adapt to commodity market 
fluctuations or other economic disruptions that may have social impacts.
Constructive dialogue is at the foundation of our relationships with 
host communities and stakeholders. Our engagements help to inform 
understanding of our actual, potential and perceived impacts. They also help 
us build a localized understanding of what contributes to community welfare 
and long-term sustainability as well as mutually identify relevant social 
investment and development priorities to support any gaps. Engagements 
also enable us to share information about our own operational activities, 
facilitate dialogue and build trust.
While  our community programs are tailored to the site-specific dynamics of 
the operation and host community, our overarching objectives in partnership 
with our local stakeholders are to: (1) build enduring trust, (2) minimize or 
mitigate any negative impacts from our operations, (3) maximize the positive 
benefits, (4) support our communities in building resiliency and well-being 
over the life of the mine, and (5) develop the skills and capacity to thrive 
beyond the mine.
Policies & Programs
›	 Social Performance Policy (previously called Community Policy) – 
Mandates engagement and collaboration with local communities to 
minimize and mitigate unavoidable adverse impacts while maximizing 
opportunities to deliver value from our presence.
›	 Social Performance Plans (previously called Community 
Engagement and Development Plans) – Each operating mine site 
maintains a Social Performance plan, updated annually, which 
provides a strategic framework for risk management, engagement 
and development assistance to the communities and neighboring 
stakeholders near our operations.
›	 Social Performance Management System – The system documents 
and institutionalizes how we interact with our communities across 
our portfolio with the goal of driving strong, consistent social 
performance and critical coordination, communications, and 
accountability across the global business. A cross-functional team, 
including representatives from operations, sustainability and senior 
leadership, has been actively involved in the design with rollout 
planned for 2021.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  42
ENGAGEMENT
Traditionally, we engage with our host communities in person through 
Community Partnership Panels in the U.S., Community Roundtables in 
South America and community development and empowerment teams in 
Indonesia. All three models focus on proactive, transparent communications 
and dialogue and are comprised of local leaders and citizens representing 
a broad range of stakeholder groups in each community. Each of our 
operations also engages with stakeholders frequently through situation or 
topic-specific meetings, presentations or community outreach office hours.
With the onset of COVID-19 in early 2020, our community engagement teams 
quickly pivoted to virtual or socially distanced formats. In some communities, 
the transition to virtual channels resulted in an increase in overall frequency 
and stakeholder participation. However, in some of our partner communities, 
particularly Native American reservations in the U.S. and in more remote 
communities in Chile and Papua, effective virtual engagements were 
challenging due to unreliable internet and limited mobile phone access. 
We sought to reach these communities by phone, when available, and held 
socially distanced meetings with some stakeholders. In addition, some of the 
Tribes in North America closed access to their reservations to prevent the 
spread of COVID-19, limiting our access to engage and support them directly. 
Despite the challenges of COVID-19, we held more than 56 virtual community 
engagement meetings through our formalized processes, such as Community 
Partnership Panels and Roundtables, and an estimated 250 additional 
engagements throughout the year. 
COVID-19 reinforced the importance of collaborating with various public 
and private partners and using our convening power to support our 
stakeholders with necessary resources. For example, early in the pandemic, 
our community engagement team in North America worked with the U.S. 
Chamber of Commerce and other partners to provide insight and guidance 
to our stakeholders and small business leaders on a range of topics, from 
financial knowledge and business recovery to information on how to access 
the U.S. federal relief packages and other available state and federal 
financial resources. 
SOCIAL INVESTMENTS 
Our social investment programs are funded directly through each operation 
and the respective foundation or community trust funds we have established 
and maintain in the U.S., Chile, Peru and Indonesia. We believe communities 
best understand their own needs. Through our ongoing engagements, we 
work to understand their needs and objectives and empower them through 
community-led processes that direct our investments to relevant programs 
that meet mutually defined goals and objectives.
Annually, we seek to invest 1% of our revenue (based on a prior three-
year average) into community programs. Our revenue and corresponding 
community investments tend to vary year over year due to a variety of 
factors, including the cyclical nature of our business. In 2020, Freeport 
invested $108 million in social programs around the world, less than 
our 2020 target of $165 million, in part due to COVID-19-related budget 
and programming adjustments. Since we first established a community 
investment target in 2009, we have invested nearly $1.9 billion dollars in 
community development initiatives.
Community Trust Funds	
35%
Safety, Health & Environment	 17%
Other	
17%
Economic Development 
& Infrastructure	
15%
Education & Training	
12%
Administration	
4%
35+17+17+15+12+4+J
2020 COMMUNITY 
INVESTMENTS
2020 TOTAL
INVESTMENT 
$108
MILLION
$1.9
BILLION
CUMULATIVE
INVESTMENT
SINCE 2009
RESILIENCE 
One of our primary goals in working with our communities is to help build 
resiliency over the life of the mine. Resiliency means the ability to anticipate 
and consider potential scenarios and corresponding responses, and 
pivot from changes in mine plans and unforeseeable events, such as the 
COVID-19 pandemic and impacts from climate change. 
In 2020, much of our work shifted to helping communities manage the 
effects of the pandemic by providing dedicated resources and support and 
finding ways to contribute toward regional and national efforts. We are 
focused on supporting our communities through the ICMM Build Forward 
Better Framework by supporting efforts linked to livelihood (such as jobs 
and income) and learning (such as education and skills) to enable economic 
resilience and help create conditions for recovery and growth through the 
identification and development of alternative economic opportunities. 
Americas
›	 To help support COVID-19 relief efforts in the U.S., we delivered a 
warehouse full of medical supplies to hospitals, health clinics and 
first responders in 27 locations in four states and six tribal nations. 
We moved quarterly Community Partnership Panels online to comply 
with social distancing precautions, which allowed us to engage with 
45% more stakeholders on average per meeting. Our long-standing 
partnerships with Arizona and New Mexico United Way leaders allowed 
us to quickly coordinate the use of the company’s matching funds for 
COVID-19 emergency relief and community recovery. 
›	 Our South America operations donated food, medical equipment, 
medical supplies and PPE to local communities to support COVID-19 
relief efforts. In Chile, our El Abra operations donated ventilators, 
medical supplies and a fully-equipped ambulance to local organizations.
›	 In 2020, the Freeport-McMoRan Foundation committed $500,000 to help 
establish a Collaborative Care Center to provide accessible healthcare to 
the community and surrounding counties near our Henderson operations 
in Colorado. The center will house public health and human services, 
primary medical care, mental and behavioral health, and veterans 
services. Government and medical professionals will provide a team 
based approach and help address the social determinants of health that 
prevent many rural residents from receiving needed services. 
Indonesia	
›	 PT-FI and the Amungme and Kamoro Community Empowerment 
Foundation (YPMAK) gave a combined $1.6 million to support 
national, provincial and regency government COVID-19 mitigation 
efforts during 2020. Funds were used to purchase and transport food 
supplies as well as PPE for local communities, health facilities and 
hospital medical personnel treating COVID-19 patients. During 2020, 
PT-FI purchased two Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) machines and 
converted its own labs to analyze tests of employees and others from 
around Papua. PT-FI also provided thousands of test kits, expanded 
its medical staff, added inpatient facilities and medical equipment, 
and increased its isolation centers. 
›	 To build resiliency in and around Gresik, PT-FI leveraged its strong 
partnership with the Indonesian Red Cross to hold multiple blood 
donation programs for employees and contractors. PT-FI donated PPE 
to the Indonesian Red Cross and the East Java branch of the Indonesia 
Chamber of Commerce and Industry.
One of our primary goals in 
working with our communities 
is to help build resiliency.
SUPPORTING OUR HOST COMMUNITIES DURING COVID-19
Cerro Verde’s partnerships with health-care organizations expanded 
in 2020 to address pandemic-related community health needs.
After a summer surge in COVID-19 cases left Peruvian 
hospitals struggling to keep pace with increased demand for 
medical-grade oxygen amid a supply shortage, Cerro Verde 
donated an oxygen generating plant to Honorio Delgado 
Regional Hospital in Arequipa, Peru.
The new plant generates 720 cubic meters of medical-grade 
oxygen each day, or enough for the hospital to expand care to 
an additional fifty COVID-19 patients, nearly double its previous 
capacity. It complies with international standards and was 
certified by one of the Peruvian Ministry of Health agencies. 
Since the start of the pandemic, Cerro Verde has donated 
120 oxygen cylinders as well as funds to purchase 10 non-invasive 
Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP) ventilators, helped 
acquire more than 500,000 test kits for the government and 
contributed tens of thousands of PPE items to regional health centers.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  44
CAPACITY BUILDING 
Individual, institutional and economic capacity building continues to be a 
primary focus of our work with communities. To build individual capacity, 
we help ensure people have enduring, adaptable skills and opportunities 
needed to achieve productive livelihoods, particularly post-mining, and to 
play a progressively active role in the future prosperity and resilience of their 
own communities. We support long-term efforts to develop capabilities in 
leaders of organizations, local governments and nonprofits that contribute 
to communities’ ongoing ability to grow, adapt and thrive over the long term, 
regardless of the status of mining. We also work to help local economies 
diversify by promoting small business development and a local ecosystem 
that enables their growth and sustainability. These efforts underpin our 
contribution to the SDGs.  
Americas	
›	 For the two-year period ending in 2020, Freeport provided matching 
funds to help secure competitive Rural Economic Development 
Innovation (REDI) technical grants from the United States Department 
of Agriculture for multiple rural communities in Arizona, Colorado and 
New Mexico. The REDI grants are exclusive planning grants that bring 
together local leaders and economic development experts to create 
actionable economic development plans addressing entrepreneurial 
ecosystems, housing and workforce attraction. They became vital to the 
entrepreneurial ecosystem during the pandemic.  
Indonesia	
›	 During 2019, PT-FI completed the conversion of the Partnership 
Fund into an Indonesian Foundation (YPMAK) which will eventually 
achieve financial and managerial self-sufficiency and strengthen 
the long-term effectiveness of PT-FI’s social investments. The new 
YPMAK foundation is a grant-making organization and aims to provide 
financial assistance for community-based programs and professional 
third-parties to implement projects focused on health, education, 
economic development, training and small-scale infrastructure. PT-FI 
contributes 1% of annual revenue to the foundation, or $36.1 million 
in 2020, bringing the total to more than $861 million since 1996.
›	 In 2020, we launched a mentorship initiative to support graduating 
Papuan high school students pursuing post-secondary educations 
at foreign universities outside Indonesia. Students receive full 
scholarships and funding from the Papua Provincial Government for 
international travel, tuition, books, and room and board. Each student 
is assigned a Freeport or PT-FI mentor who assists with academic 
goal setting, time management, resume writing and job interview 
techniques. The program commenced with 57 mentees in Fall 2020, 
of which 68% are women. 
15% of our community investments were 
in economic opportunities, small business 
initiatives and the infrastructure of our 
communities globally. 
Cerro Verde's healthy 
lunchbox program in 
Peru educates and 
provides meals to 
school children.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  46
WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT & DEVELOPMENT
In 2020, cumulative enrollment in our women’s economic empowerment 
and leadership programs reached a significant milestone, surpassing 
100,000 women. Women’s empowerment is a theme across our community 
engagement work. We believe inclusive and diverse communities that 
enable full and equal participation of women are stronger and more 
resilient over the long term. In addition to contributing to the UN SDGs, our 
empowerment initiatives promote women’s rights through policy advocacy, 
leadership in the public and private sectors, small business training 
programs and educational attainment.  
The largest of our economic development programs, DreamBuilder – a free, 
online entrepreneurship training program for women – has helped train more 
than 93,000 women across 90 countries (primarily in the U.S., Chile and Peru 
where we operate). In its ninth year, the program equips women with the skills 
and confidence needed to become financially independent business owners. 
Freeport partners with WEConnect International and Vital Voices to support 
women's empowerment and leadership. Through our partnership with 
WEConnect, approximately 300 women business owners have participated 
in trainings and certifications to better enable them to compete for a greater 
share of private sector sourcing contracts as well as a business growth forum 
in Jakarta, Indonesia. Freeport joined Vital Voices in launching VVEngage to 
empower and prepare women to serve in public leadership roles where they 
can affect change in public policy and increase equality of benefits for women. 
The program aims to shift the culture around women’s public leadership and 
move towards equality in public representation globally. Since 2018, over 50 
women leaders from 23 countries have benefitted from VVEngage.  
EVALUATING OUR IMPACT
In 2020, we initiated a new impact evaluation pilot program focused on our 
communities in North America. Working with a third-party firm, True Impact, 
our aim was to go beyond tracking and reporting the output of our investments 
which traditionally refers to the number of direct beneficiaries, and measure and 
evaluate the broader impact of our social investments and the value created. 
We evaluated 90 projects across eight of our U.S. operating communities and 
their impact over the past five years. In that time, we invested $33.3 million, 
that enabled participation of 2.9 million direct beneficiaries, which yielded 
1.37 million “successes.” The “success” metric includes a measure of how lives 
are improved or what additional ongoing value is gained resulting from the 
company’s initial social investments. For example, it evaluates if a participant 
attends a training and then starts a business with that knowledge, creating more 
job opportunities versus simply tracking the training attendance with no follow-
on actions. The success metric includes tracking of things like jobs created or 
retained, improved health, or earning a higher education degree or credential. 
The overall evaluation concluded that company investments supported 
diverse programs and outcomes, often fortifying capacity to reach more 
beneficiaries or increase their efficacy over time. These highly leveraged 
investments generate more social impact than typical philanthropy, increasing 
social value to the community and social return on investment.
Following the initial pilot in North America, the team is considering how 
the approach might be adapted for implementation at our other sites. By 
implementing new tools and processes to evaluate our impact, we hope to 
further demonstrate the social value of mining as well as increase the efficacy 
of our social investments and their ability to deliver positive social change.
To support COVID-19 relief efforts, Cerro 
Verde provided PPE to local communities 
in Tiabaya district of Arequipa, Peru
COMMUNITY GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS
To support constructive engagement and resolution of issues that may arise, we maintain site-level grievance 
mechanisms where community members can share their questions, concerns and complaints outside of any other 
engagement forum. These community grievance mechanisms serve as an early warning system and help to manage and 
reduce potential risks by identifying and addressing problems before any potential escalation into larger conflicts.
Our community grievance mechanisms are available in local languages, tailored to local cultures and allow us to document 
and track issues and concerns raised by local community members and respond in a timely manner. Grievances typically 
are received by community engagement team members in the field through engagement at established company or 
community forums, in writing via physical drop boxes or via local telephone hotlines. Grievances then are reported to 
the site Community Grievance Officer, who relays the grievance to the relevant department for evaluation. Community 
engagement team members help investigate grievances and work with community members to acknowledge the 
grievance, address concerns, solve problems and mitigate or remedy impacts. For grievances with potentially high 
community impacts, senior management and applicable government authorities are engaged as appropriate.
During 2020, our global operations recorded 140 community grievances in our web-based management system, 
mostly regarding community benefits, environmental concerns, health and safety, and land rights. This system 
allows us to track grievances, identify thematic trends, report resolutions and measure our performance.
In 2020, we completed a review of our global community grievance procedures against the UN Guiding Principles 
(UNGPs) effectiveness criteria. The ICMM’s updated good practice guidance on Handling and Resolving Local-level 
Concerns and Grievances, which together with input from community members and their representatives, will be 
incorporated into our Community Grievance Standard Operating Procedure. Process improvements include, but are 
not limited to, access accommodations for vulnerable groups, guidance on impact assessment and remedy, and 
establishment of a formal feedback loop to inform continuous improvement. These enhancements will be rolled out 
in 2021 along with improved management systems. 
42+38+12+7+1+J
2020 GRIEVANCES
United States	
59
Indonesia	
53
Chile	
17
Peru	
10
Europe	
1
COMMUNITY
GRIEVANCES
TOTAL: 140
27+22+15+12+10+6+4+4+0+J
Community Benefits	
27%
Environment 	
22%
Health & Safety	
15%
Other1	
12%
Land Rights	
10%
Physical Damage 	
6%
Employment 	
4%
Cultural Heritage	
4%
GRIEVANCE
TOPICS (%)
1	 Other includes security, town site / housing 
and other grievances not listed above.
We track grievances, 
identify thematic trends, 
report resolutions and 
measure our performance.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  48
Indigenous Peoples
WHY IT MATTERS
Indigenous Peoples have lived for thousands of years in aboriginal 
territories around the world. These populations inhabit landscapes that 
collectively hold some of the world’s most diverse peoples, languages, 
cultures and biodiversity. At Freeport, we acknowledge and respect the 
Indigenous Peoples who have historically occupied areas on or near our 
operations or have ancestral connections to these lands. We are steadfast 
in our commitment to engage with indigenous groups, and importantly, to 
foster long-term relationships built on transparency and trust to earn and 
maintain our social license to operate.
OUR APPROACH
Freeport’s stakeholder engagement and social investment objectives include 
formal interactions with Indigenous Peoples in Papua, Indonesia; Native 
Americans in the United States; and the traditional communities of Alto El Loa 
in Chile. The adjacent table provides a listing of the Indigenous Peoples that 
we currently interact with on a routine basis. This list is not exhaustive and is 
not static. For example, there are several other Native American Tribes in the 
Southwestern United States that we interact with on a non-routine basis.
Our approach aims to respect the social, economic and cultural rights of 
Indigenous Peoples, including supporting their effective representation 
and participation in engagements with our company. We are committed to 
adhering to the ICMM Position Statement on Indigenous Peoples and Mining 
and work towards obtaining Free, Prior and Informed Consent (FPIC) for 
new projects and material expansions of existing projects.
REGION / SITE
INDIGENOUS GROUP / COMMUNITY
Southwestern U.S. 
(Arizona)
Hualapai Tribe  
Navajo Nation  
Pascua Yaqui Tribe  
San Carlos Apache Tribe  
Tohono O’odham Nation  
White Mountain Apache Tribe  
Yavapai Prescott Indian Tribe  
Yavapai-Apache Nation 
El Abra (Chile)
Ascotán  
Ayllu Ojos de San Pedro  
Ayquina  
Caspana  
Chiu Chiu  
Conchi Viejo  
Coska  
Cupo  
Estación San Pedro  
Lasana  
Ollagüe  
Taira  
Toconce 
PT-FI (Papua, Indonesia)
Amungme  
Damal  
Dani  
Kamoro  
Mee  
Moni  
Nduga
At Freeport, we acknowledge and respect the Indigenous 
Peoples who have historically occupied areas near our 
operations or have ancestral connections to these lands.
BUILDING TRUST WITH INDIGENOUS PEOPLES
Over the last two years, we focused on strengthening our work to build 
trust with Indigenous Peoples potentially impacted by our operations and 
business activities, starting with our North American operations. The 
overarching goal of the process was to develop a practice that facilitates 
trust by supporting ongoing relationships, fostering transparency and 
creating shared value over time. Ultimately, the trust-building process also 
should enable a clearer path to FPIC when new expansions or projects are 
undertaken that may impact Indigenous Peoples.
We began with a workshop facilitated by experts in indigenous relations to 
support our understanding of our current relationships with Native American 
tribes and to determine areas and key goals for improvement. Freeport has 
an internal Native American affairs team who provided critical guidance 
and leadership through this effort and continue to do so on an ongoing 
basis. The team’s expertise, knowledge and perspectives are invaluable 
to informing and educating our company’s practices. As such, they led a 
multi-disciplinary team from across our U.S. operations and corporate office 
to develop an approach that outlines how we seek to build trust between 
our operations and our partner Native American tribes through a variety of 
activities and approaches. 
A critical component of the approach is the establishment and maintenance 
of dedicated trust building teams at our operations. These cross-functional 
teams are responsible for understanding the values and cultural needs of each 
tribe, developing and maintaining ongoing relationships, supporting effective 
engagements on a regular basis, and creating opportunities for social benefit. 
Often in the past, relationships were transactional in nature and defined by 
specific business needs such as land purchases and projects. Although we 
continue to discuss these topics, we are shifting our focus to building deeper 
relationships that deliver a foundation of trust through which shared value can 
be achieved over the long term. 
Early indications from the initial implementation of the Building Trust 
approach show we are facilitating a much greater understanding of the 
values and needs of nearby tribes that will improve our approach to and 
definition of engagements and shared benefits. In 2021, we will continue to 
apply the Building Trust approach at our U.S. sites and begin adaptation and 
implementation at our international sites. 
A Project Dreamcatcher graduate, small 
business owner, Hualapai Tribe member, 
pictured with her daughter in Arizona.
RESILIENCE
Americas
In 2020, our resilience efforts focused on our COVID-19 response where 
we redirected funds to help deliver critical supplies to tribal communities 
and address other response and recovery efforts. For example, through our 
Native American Partnership Fund, we awarded $50,000 to the Hualapai 
Tribe to support the construction of an Emergency Operations Center and 
storage facility for the Hualapai Incident Command team who monitor 
community health and communicates medical recommendations, such as 
measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Additionally, we supported 
the Hualapai Tribe with funds to retrofit tribal office workspaces, allowing 
tribal business to continue amid social distancing and tribal public health 
ordinances. We provided the White Mountain Apache Tribe, near our Morenci 
mine site, funds to purchase personal hygiene kits and other necessities for 
first responder teams.
The Navajo Nation was one of the hardest hit by COVID-19 with infection 
rates among the highest in the U.S. We partnered with the Nation to provide 
PPE and other medical supplies as well as funds for emergency response 
and recovery efforts that could be applied to address the most urgent needs 
as they arose through the initial months of the pandemic.
Our Safford and Morenci operations in Arizona donated approximately 
72,300 bottles of water ­
— more than 3,000 cases — to support the needs 
of the San Carlos Apache Tribe and White Mountain Apache Tribe. The 
typical summer water shortage experienced in Arizona was amplified by 
the COVID-19 crisis with the frequent need to cleanse hands and reduce 
the spread of the virus. In remote locations, tribal members haul water for 
everything from cooking and drinking to showering.
In early 2020 at our El Abra operation in Chile, we delivered 10 thousand liters 
of water to the neighboring communities of Ayquina and Cupo located in the El 
Loa Province, Antofagasta Region, where water scarcity is historically high and 
few communities have access to potable drinking water. These communities 
have large elderly populations, who could not safely seek potable water during 
the pandemic. The municipality of Calama delivers water once a month to the 
communities. During the pandemic, the need for additional water for cooking, 
cleaning and basic hygiene increased significantly. 
Indonesia
Some of the traditional waterways used by the Kamoro Lowland 
communities have been impacted by PT-FI’s recent levee extension which 
was necessary to maintain the safety of our controlled riverine tailings 
system. PT-FI has been collaborating with the Kamoro on a mitigation 
strategy for the levee extension, and in 2020, accelerated its support 
and collaboration with the Mimika Government to establish the village of 
Otakwa, east of the levee, as a transportation hub to support the Kamoro’s 
economic needs.   
In 2020, in cooperation with the Mimika Catholic Diocese, PT-FI helped 
establish a retail grocery store in Otakwa, providing food and necessities to 
nearby coastal communities including fishermen. Developed in partnership 
with Arizona State University’s School of Sustainability, a solar panel 
system was installed next to the retail grocery store to economically power 
refrigerators, reducing fish storage costs and increasing fish quality. In 2020 
during the pandemic, the cooperative was able to keep the solar system 
operating, benefitting the fishing community with higher return on sales and 
the broader Otakwa community with lower retail prices. Fish is now sold 
locally without incurring the expensive round-trip transport costs to Timika. 
PT-FI supports local businesses  
such as the Amungme Gold Coffee 
Company in Papua, Indonesia.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  50
CAPACITY BUILDING
Americas
During 2020, we continued our Native American college scholarship 
program which has awarded 304 college scholarships to tribal students over 
the last nine years. This program is particularly important, as we continue 
to identify mechanisms and solutions to increase equity in education. 
In 2020, 18 students from the Hualapai Tribe, San Carlos Apache Tribe, 
Tohono O’odham Nation and the White Mountain Apache Tribe received 
scholarships and attended Arizona state universities, tribal colleges and 
tribal universities across the U.S. and one in Sonora, Mexico.
Our DreamCatcher program, aimed at empowering Native American women 
entrepreneurs, consists of an intensive week of MBA-level business classes 
taught by Thunderbird School of Global Management faculty, site visits to 
local businesses and professional development and networking sessions 
with successful business owners. Since inception, 67 participants have 
been selected to complete the intensive in-person DreamCatcher program. 
In response to COVID-19, DreamCatcher pivoted to an open online platform 
where 19 webinars were hosted for 260 tribal participants, significantly 
expanding program reach. 
Indonesia 
PT-FI has engaged with Papua’s indigenous populations for decades 
through multiple formal agreements that promote capacity building 
through workforce skills training as well as health, education, economic 
development, public infrastructure development, and participatory 
monitoring and evaluation of PT-FI funded projects. 
We continually invest in our host communities in Papua by implementing 
programs to support capacity building through the development of 
their skills and employability. Our Papuan Sustainable Human Capital 
Development Program is designed to increase opportunities for Indigenous 
Papuans to join our workforce directly or through contractors that support 
our operations. The program includes a three-week course to enhance life 
and work skills by teaching teamwork, behavioral safety and workplace 
compliance expectations. PT-FI also provides a monitoring and coaching 
program to support successful adaptation into the working environment. 
Through 2020, 302 Papuans have completed the program and now are 
working with contractor organizations throughout PT-FI operations. 
We continue 
to identify 
mechanisms 
and solutions to 
increase equity 
in education. 
A 2020-2021 Freeport-McMoRan Native American Scholarship 
Recipient in Arizona.  We seek to support our Indigenous neighbors 
through capacity building and educational opportunities.  
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  52
Human Rights
WHY IT MATTERS
Human rights are internationally recognized, defined in the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights and codified in international law. Mining activities 
have the potential to impact the way people enjoy these rights – as employees, 
contractors, suppliers, community members, human rights defenders or other 
groups. Freeport respects internationally recognized human rights, including 
the rights under the International Bill of Human Rights, and is committed to 
implementing the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human 
Rights (UNGPs). Treating people with respect is simply the right thing to do.
OUR APPROACH
Respect is a core value for Freeport. We are committed to respecting the 
rights of all people, including our employees, contractors and suppliers, 
community members, and others who potentially may be impacted by our 
business activities. We take this obligation seriously in all aspects of our 
business, and we expect the same of our business partners.
Respecting human rights is a business imperative and unique opportunity. 
We aim to promote human rights through proactive engagement with 
host governments and communities and by training our employees and 
contractors. Our corporate level Human Rights Working Group supports our 
site-level implementation of the UNGPs.
We participate in multi-industry dialogues on respect for human rights, 
including Business for Social Responsibility’s human rights working 
group, Sustainability 50’s executive-level peer-to-peer collaboration 
and information exchange on multiple topics including human rights and 
responsible supply chains, ICMM’s Community Support Working Group, 
and the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights (VPs). These 
external initiatives, together with local and international-level stakeholder 
engagement, influence our human rights approach.
Policies & Programs
›	 Human Rights Policy – States our commitments to the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights, the UNGPs and the VPs. In late 2020, we 
updated our Human Rights Policy to strengthen our commitments and 
incorporate our value chain approach. 
›	 Supplier Code of Conduct – Based on our PBC, our Supplier Code 
of Conduct sets forth expectations for suppliers and contractors 
in areas such as safety, human rights, anti-corruption, community 
and environment. We mandate human rights standards through our 
supplier contracts.
›	 Responsible Sourcing of Minerals Policy – Our Responsible 
Sourcing of Minerals Policy commits our business to identifying and 
mitigating human rights violations in our supply chains of minerals 
and metals for our downstream processing facilities.
The CRC provides oversight of our human rights program and application of 
the Policy is supported by our PBC and other core policies (Anti-Corruption, 
Social Performance, Environmental, Safety and Health, and Inclusion and 
Diversity). These policies and supporting management systems along with 
relevant external standards and initiatives form the overall framework that 
guides our sustainability programs and management of human rights risks.
CORPORATE HUMAN RIGHTS BENCHMARK
In 2020, the CHRB assessed Freeport’s human rights program and performance. We ranked 2nd among 
all North American companies assessed and tied for 5th among all 57 global extractives assessed. 
Visit the CHRB website for more information.
PERFORMANCE
Despite social distancing due to COVID-19, many of our human rights 
teams collaborated more frequently in 2020. Teams held weekly meetings 
with critical sites to discuss and address complex issues brought on by the 
pandemic. Our Human Rights Working Group convened four times to share 
and provide feedback across functions including Global Supply Chain, 
Compliance, Sustainability and Communities. This enabled our operations to 
adapt quickly and keep respect for human rights at the forefront.
Protecting our workforce from the virus was paramount. At our Cerro Verde 
operations in Peru, most of our workforce commutes daily from Arequipa, 
Peru’s second most populous city. We quickly recognized the need to reduce 
potential exposures and implemented a hoteling concept where employees 
stayed on-site for seven-day shifts after completing a screening process. 
Similarly, at our PT-FI operations in Indonesia, in order to limit potential 
exposures to our workforce and the communities, we enacted travel 
restrictions between our operations in the Highlands and the communities 
in the Lowlands where most of our employees live. As we gained experience 
with COVID-19 protocols and listened to feedback from our workforce and 
communities, we responded and adjusted workforce COVID-19 requirements.
Due Diligence
As we seek to further embed respect for human rights across our 
organizational activities, we use our Risk Register process to identify 
risks to people at each operation and address potential and actual impacts 
on rights-holders. This process is developed by ongoing stakeholder 
engagement, grievance management and the results of human rights 
impact assessments (HRIAs). 
Our primary method of conducting specific human rights due diligence at our 
operations is through HRIAs. They involve direct input from a broad cross-
section of internal and external rights-holders and support continuous 
improvement of our management systems by testing their effectiveness in 
identifying and addressing potential, actual and perceived human rights 
risks and impacts.
In second-quarter 2019, we initiated implementation of an HRIA at our El Abra 
operation in Chile. Unfortunately, field work was deferred due to social unrest 
throughout the country occurring in late 2019 through early 2020. Then, as a 
result of COVID-19, we were unable to restart as planned. We are restarting 
the HRIA in 2021 with a virtual approach to field work and expect to complete 
the assessment during the year. In 2021, we also plan to start our Arizona 
HRIA and initiate planning for an HRIA at PT-FI, which will commence in 2022.
Our responsible sourcing programs require human rights due diligence on 
suppliers of both goods and services, and minerals and metals for further 
processing. In 2020, we launched a new version of our supplier screening tool 
used to assess supplier human rights and other sustainability-related risks. 
The tool helps identify where we need to collaborate or investigate further with 
suppliers and is being used at most of our operations as of first-quarter 2021. 
In 2020, PT-FI continued its Human Rights Ambassador program, providing 
representatives from contractor companies with train-the-trainer instruction 
on human rights and the VPs. After training, Human Rights Ambassadors serve 
within their respective contractor companies and promote awareness of PT-FI’s 
Human Rights Policy, emphasize our shared responsibility for human rights and 
annually train their company’s workforce on human rights.
HUMAN RIGHTS IMPACT ASSESSMENT STATUS
YEAR CONDUCTED
2013
2017
2018
2021
2021
2022
TBD
Site / Region
Corporate
Cerro Verde
New Mexico
El Abra
Arizona
PT-FI
Europe
Status
Complete
Complete
Complete
In Progress
Planned
Targeted
Targeted
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  54
VOLUNTARY PRINCIPLES ON SECURITY & HUMAN RIGHTS 
The VPs serve as guidelines for our security and human rights programs, 
including interactions with host government police, military personnel 
and private security contractors. Our implementation is primarily focused 
on Indonesia and Peru, which are higher risk jurisdictions for security and 
human rights matters. 
Risk assessments help us identify security-related human rights risks and 
create action plans for specific site-level operating environments. Contracts 
with private security providers include requirements to comply with both 
our Human Rights Policy and the VPs. Memorandums of Understanding 
are maintained with host governments detailing the working relationship 
between the company and the public security personnel assigned to it. 
Human Rights Compliance Officers conduct training for security employees, 
security contractors and host government security as well as receive, 
document and follow up on formally or informally reported human rights 
incidents, grievances and allegations. Refer to our annual reports to the 
Voluntary Principles Plenary on our website for more information.
Indonesia has long faced separatist movements and civil and religious strife 
in various provinces. In Papua, where our Grasberg minerals district is 
located, separatist groups have sought increased political independence for 
the province. These groups have been responsible for sporadic attacks on 
civilians as well as highly publicized conflicts between separatists and the 
Indonesia military and police.
On March 30, 2020, a fatal shooting incident occurred at an administration 
building near Timika, a town in the Lowlands area of our operations. We are 
deeply saddened to report one expatriate employee was killed, one national 
employee and one national contractor were seriously injured, and four 
others suffered minor injuries. Police authorities believe an armed separatist 
group, also reportedly responsible for recent attacks on government 
security posts near Tembagapura, orchestrated the attack. 
PT-FI continues to work with the government to enhance security 
throughout the PT-FI project area. We continue to limit the use of the road 
leading to our mining and milling operations to secured convoys, including 
transport of personnel by armored vehicles in designated areas.
GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS & REMEDY
While we seek to avoid causing and contributing to adverse impacts on 
individuals and communities, we acknowledge they may occur. We are 
committed to providing for and cooperating in remediation of adverse impacts 
related to our business as well as collaborating with value chain stakeholders 
to address impacts linked to our business relationships. 
We have established grievance mechanisms for employees, community 
members and members of our supply chain and others to report human 
rights concerns. These mechanisms help us address concerns early and 
remediate impacts directly. Updates to our community grievance mechanism 
are being rolled out in 2021 to incorporate the effectiveness criteria outlined 
in the UNGPs. To learn more, please refer to the Community Grievance 
Mechanisms section of this report. 
All areas of our operations are committed to respecting 
the rights of all people. Photo captured pre-COVID-19 
at our Atlantic Copper smelter and refinery in Spain.
Environmental protection and 
stewardship are critical to the 
long-term viability of our business.
Educators teach visitors about the tailings deposition area at our demonstration area in 
Papua, Indonesia, which is part of the reclamation and revegetation program at PT-FI.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  56
Environment
Freeport recognizes that mining impacts the natural environment. Our 
goal is to conduct our mining and processing operations in a manner that 
minimizes adverse impacts on the environment and supports protection of 
the ecosystems through responsible environmental stewardship.
We believe environmental protection and stewardship are the keys to 
ensuring the long-term viability of our business, including maintaining the 
necessary support from our host communities and governments. We are 
committed to sound environmental practices at all of our operations with a 
focus on continuous improvement.
Our workforce incorporates environmental awareness into our daily 
activities and implements actions necessary to protect the environment. This 
commitment is reflected in the highest level of our executive management, 
and the Board’s CRC provides oversight to management on the direction and 
effectiveness of our environmental practices, policies and programs.
POLICIES & PROGRAMS
Our Environmental Policy serves as the framework for the protection of 
natural resources in the regions where we live and work. In addition to 
maintaining compliance with laws and regulations, our policy objectives are  
to minimize environmental impacts using risk management strategies based 
on valid data and sound science. 
Our Policy also requires that we review and account for the environmental 
effects of our activities throughout the mining life cycle, and we plan and 
conduct our operations in a manner that optimizes the economic use of 
resources while minimizing adverse environmental effects.
All of our mining and mineral processing operations and technology centers 
maintain Environmental Management Systems (EMS) certified to the ISO 
14001:2015 standard. As part of our EMS, our workforce is trained on site-
specific subject areas, receives annual environmental refresher training and 
is supported in the field by environmental professionals through our Boots 
in the Field program.
Site management teams identify, manage and mitigate environmental risks 
through our Risk Register and the use of environmental critical control 
systems designed to prevent significant environmental incidents from 
occurring at our operations. Critical controls are particularly focused on the 
elimination of unplanned off-site releases and prevention or minimization of 
impacts to water and other natural resources.
At the corporate level, we maintain subject matter experts (SMEs) who train, 
develop and support site teams, routinely conduct site visits and manage 
a group of site-based SMEs. Collectively, they are responsible for building 
technical expertise, ensuring consistency in our environmental programs 
and sharing best practices.
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE INDICATORS
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
Reportable spills or releases of hazardous or toxic chemicals1
33
25
17
33 
192
NOVs related to permit exceedances, spills, or releases or other 
compliance matters3 
5
5
10
5
7
# of Significant Environmental Events (as defined by the Risk Register) 
-
-
1
-
-
Cumulative Environmental Penalties4
-
$ 317,000
- 
$ 124,682
$ 67,100
1	 Reportable spills excludes spills at PT-FI associated with pipeline sabotage. Due to increased security efforts, the number of sabotage-related spills reported at PT-FI decreased from 68 in 2018 to 16 in 2019 to 8 in 2020.
2	 2020 reportable spills included four releases of 75 kg (or less) of NH3 or SO2 at our Rotterdam molybdenum plant associated with malfunctions of the catalytic oxidizer, down from 14 such events in 2019.
3	 NOV is Notice of Violation. As NOVs are rescinded based on the legal appeals process, prior year data may be updated.
4	 2017 penalties paid were from NOVs at Cerro Verde in 2006 and 2008. 2019 penalties paid were from NOVs at Sierrita for dust events in 2018 ($30,000) and a NOV at Cerro Verde in 2007 ($94,682). In addition, we agreed to fund a $200,000 
Supplemental Environmental Project associated with the Sierrita dust events. The Cerro Verde fine was paid in 2019 from a regulatory inspection conducted in 2007 due to extended legal appeal process. 2020 penalties paid were principally 
from a Sierrita dust event ($55,000) and the failure to obtain a CO2 permit at Rotterdam ($12,000).
Note: Excludes data from the Tenke Fungurume mine, which was sold in November 2016. As a result of methodology changes or corrections, prior year data may be updated. All financial figures are quoted in U.S. dollars, unless otherwise noted.
PERFORMANCE
The EMS at each of our operations are independently audited on an annual 
basis. In 2020, we used a virtual audit format to complete internal EMS 
audits at seven locations and environmental compliance audits at another 
two locations. Our facilities were inspected by governmental regulatory 
agencies 58 times and several were conducted virtually. Inspections were 
down significantly year over year due to COVID-19 travel restrictions and 
safety protocols. Early in 2020, we revised operating plans due to COVID-19, 
which included suspending operations at our Chino mine, lowering mining 
rates at El Abra and deferring all nonessential projects. Additionally, 
Cerro Verde’s mining and milling rates were impacted by the government-
mandated temporary shutdown. As a result, many of our environmental 
indicators are improved year over year, including water use, GHG emissions, 
air emissions and waste. 
As part of our environmental management commitment at PT-FI, external 
audits have been undertaken on a routine basis since 1996. The next audit 
was scheduled for completion in 2020; however, this was delayed due to the 
pandemic. Subject to global health conditions, we will seek to initiate the 
audit in the fourth quarter of 2021. An executive summary and responses to 
the most recent 2017 audit recommendations are posted on our website and 
will be updated once the new audit is completed.
All operations have corrective and preventive action programs associated 
with the overarching EMS as well as audit and inspection findings. These 
actions are reviewed by corporate SMEs to ensure such measures are robust 
and institutionalized for the future.
For 2020, Freeport had two global environmental targets: (1) incur zero 
environmental penalties over $100,000 on an individual basis and (2) 
incur zero significant environmental events as defined in our Risk Register 
process. We met both targets in 2020.
Fines paid in 2020 included one Notice of Violation (NOV) at Sierrita for a 
dust event arising from a tailings impoundment in 2020 ($55,000), a fine 
for failure to obtain a CO2 permit at Rotterdam for the period of 2016-2019 
($12,000) and a permit deviation at El Paso ($100). 
Typically, when our operations have received a NOV from a regulatory 
agency, the citations have involved brief and minor exceedances of permit 
conditions or other record-keeping violations.
We are committed to constantly improving our environmental performance 
across our operations. For example, to address the ongoing dust occurrences 
at Sierrita, we formed a cross-functional team to capitalize on expertise across 
different areas, are testing new dust suppression products, and are using 
satellite imagery and drones to identify areas in need of dust suppression.  
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  58
Climate
WHY IT MATTERS
Freeport recognizes climate change poses considerable near and long-term 
challenges for society and to our own operational and financial performance. 
Mining is energy-intensive and generates significant greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions that contribute to climate change. However, copper plays an 
essential role in the technologies needed to develop and deliver low carbon 
energy, including solar, wind and energy efficient technologies, which are 
critical to support the global energy transition to meet the Paris Agreement on 
climate change. 
OUR APPROACH
As one of the world’s largest copper producers, Freeport understands 
its critical role in the low-carbon energy transition. We remain dedicated 
to supplying the global economy with responsibly produced copper and 
operating in a manner that manages and mitigates our GHG emissions and 
other climate-related risks.
In 2020, we published our inaugural climate report, established our first 
GHG emissions reduction target for the Americas and committed to aligning 
our climate strategy and related disclosures with the recommendations 
of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) in the 
coming years. We also formalized our climate change strategy, which is 
founded on three pillars: Reduction, Resilience and Contribution.
›	 Reduction: We strive to manage, mitigate and reduce our GHG 
emissions where possible. As a first step, in 2020, we established our 
initial public target to reduce our GHG emissions in the Americas by 
15% per ton of copper cathode by 2030 from our 2018 baseline. 
›	 Resilience: We strive to enhance our resilience to both physical and 
transitional risks associated with climate change for our operations, 
our host communities and our stakeholders. This includes working 
proactively to analyze and prepare for extreme weather events, water 
stress and other climate change impacts.
›	 Contribution: We strive to be a positive contributor beyond our 
operational boundaries by responsibly producing copper and 
molybdenum for the energy transition. This includes collaborating 
with partners in our value chain, with the ultimate goal of meeting the 
goals of the Paris Agreement.
To learn more about our approach to climate, including our strategy, please 
read our inaugural 2019 Climate Report available on our website. We also 
will be publishing our 2020 Climate Report later this year. 
Responsibly produced copper is 
necessary for the technologies 
needed to develop and enable the 
energy transition.
Solar panels were installed at a host community 
church by the El Abra mining operation in Chile.
PERFORMANCE 
Our global annual absolute GHG emissions range between 7-9 million metric tons per year, with approximately 70% 
from our FMC operations (including FMC Mining and Downstream Processing) and 30% from PT-FI in Indonesia. Our 
FMC emissions are dominated by Scope 2 emissions as a result of purchased electricity while PT-FI’s are dominated 
by Scope 1 emissions, resulting from coal used to generate reliable electricity for our remote operations in the 
eastern province of Papua. Our current Scope 3 emissions estimates are small in comparison to our Scope 1 and 
2 emissions (less than 10% of total Scope 1 and 2 emissions), largely due to the minimal downstream processing 
required to transform copper cathode into various forms such as wire for electrical cables. In 2021, we are expanding 
our Scope 3 calculations to include additional categories in line with the WRI / WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol, as a 
result our Scope 3 calculations may change. We plan to provide more detail in our upcoming 2020 Climate Report.
In 2020, our absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 global emissions decreased by 8% from the prior year to 7.1 million 
metric tons, which was driven predominantly by reduced production and stripping at our Americas operations due to 
operational changes associated with our COVID-19 response, uncertain economic conditions and PT-FI operations 
transition from open pit to underground during the year.  
Our 2020 absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 global emissions are 21% lower than in 2016 as a result of significant 
improvements in energy efficiency and grid decarbonization, as well as periods of reduced mining rates at PT-FI. 63+28+9+J
FMC Mining	
63%
PT-FI	
28%
Downstream Processing	 9%
2020
GHG EMISSIONS
(%)
46+22+17+7+7+1+J
Natural Gas	
46%
Hydro	
22%
Coal, Other Fossil	
18%
Nuclear	
7%
Solar, Wind, Geothermal	 7%
Other	
<1%
2020
PURCHASED POWER
BY SOURCE
(%)
FCX'S 2020
ABSOLUTE GLOBAL
GHG EMISSIONS ARE
21%
LOWER
THAN IN 2016
10,000,000
8,000,000
6,000,000
4,000,000
2,000,000
0
Scope 2
Scope 1
2016 
2017 
2018 
2019 
2020
GLOBAL ABSOLUTE GHG EMISSIONS
CO2e METRIC TONS
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  60
Reduction
In 2020, we advanced plans for achieving our 15% reduction target in the 
Americas. This included progressing evaluation work on our renewable 
energy opportunities in the Americas, which is focused on reducing Scope 
2 emissions. We signed an agreement at our El Abra operations in Chile to 
source 100% of its energy consumption from renewables starting in 2021. 
We also continued assessing opportunities to reduce our Scope 1 emissions 
at our mines. 
On this page, we illustrate the absolute emissions and production intensity 
performance of our Americas copper operations (excluding our rod mills) 
and project what our performance would have been "Business as Usual" 
in the absence of innovation. On an absolute basis, we have reduced 
our total GHG emissions for the Americas business to approximately 4.6 
million metric tons, which is 6% lower than 2019 total emissions and 
24% lower than our Business as Usual projections. Performance against 
our 15% intensity target is shown with the dotted copper line. In 2020, 
our performance against our target deteriorated slightly due to reduced 
production and other reductions following operational changes to manage 
COVID-19 and economic uncertainty earlier in the year.  
PT-FI accounts for approximately 30% of total Freeport emissions and 
approximately 50% of the company’s total direct Scope 1 emissions. This is 
primarily related to its self-generation of coal-fired electricity. During 2020, 
PT-FI fully transitioned from open-pit operations to underground operations. 
As ramp-up of the underground operations reach full capacity, PT-FI’s overall 
energy requirements are expected to increase due to ventilation needs and 
ore body characteristics that require more processing of ores. To support 
additional energy requirements, PT-FI is building a new dual-fuel (diesel 
and natural gas) 128MW power plant, which is expected to begin operating 
in late 2022. The plant will be commissioned using biodiesel, and the team is 
evaluating options for using liquefied natural gas (LNG) in the future. 
In addition, PT-FI plans to evaluate other alternative energy options and 
implement a number of energy efficiency projects. This evaluation work 
will help contribute to establishing a PT-FI GHG emissions reduction 
target that is appropriate for our business needs and supports Paris 
Agreement commitments. We look forward to elaborating on this work in our 
forthcoming 2020 Climate Report. 
In 2021, we also plan to begin the process of assessing our 2030 GHG 
emissions reduction target for the Americas through the Science Based Target 
initiative (SBTi) to evaluate whether it is in line with the Paris Agreement, 
limiting global warming to well below 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial 
levels and pursuing efforts to limit warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius.  
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
2012
2013 2014 2015
AMERICAS COPPER GHG EMISSIONS REDUCTION PERFORMANCE
7,000
6,000
5,000
4,000
3,000
2,000
1,000
0
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
TOTAL METRIC TONS CO2e (THOUSANDS)
METRIC TONS CO2e / METRIC TON COPPER CATHODE
Business as Usual — Absolute
Actual — Absolute
Business as Usual — Production Intensity
Actual — Production Intensity
2030 Target
CO2e = carbon dioxide equivalent.
Resilience 
Companies face two main categories of climate-related risks — physical 
and transitional. Physical risks are the potential impacts caused by extreme 
weather events, drought-induced fires and longer-term, sustained changes 
to precipitation and temperature patterns at our operations, in our host 
communities and across our value chain (both upstream and downstream). 
Transitional risks are financial and reputational risks that may result from the 
shift to a low-carbon economy, such as capital costs for fuel switching, carbon 
taxes, carbon emissions caps, renewable energy standards and shareholder 
resolutions. In addition, as a result of the transition, the company also may see 
significant opportunities for growth in the use of copper and molybdenum, 
given their downstream uses and resulting roles in the energy transition. 
As part of our climate change strategy and commitment to TCFD conformance, 
in 2020, we initiated a comprehensive climate change scenario analysis with 
support from a third-party consultant to identify potential climate-related 
risks and opportunities across the business. We are evaluating the risks 
and opportunities across three different 2050 climate scenarios as shown 
in the adjacent graphic: No Climate Action (i.e., mostly unconstrained GHG 
emissions), Insufficient Climate Action (i.e., moderately constrained GHG 
emissions) and Aggressive Climate Action (i.e., action in line with the Paris 
Agreement goals of limiting global temperature rise well below 2 degrees 
Celsius by the end of this century). Each scenario is assessed against two 
timeframes (2030 and 2050) to understand how the risks and opportunities 
may evolve for the business.
Contribution
In early 2021, we enhanced our climate team by hiring experts to support 
work on our life cycle assessments (LCA) in order to provide customers with 
carbon footprint data on our products. We now are updating our LCA models 
in concert with the International Copper Association’s (ICA) initiative to 
update the global cathode average LCA. 
In addition, we are participating in the ICA Decarbonization Roadmap project to 
develop a footprint methodology for copper and are working with the London 
Metals Exchange to include these data in their forthcoming Digital Passport 
platform. This platform will enable companies to attach data on environmental 
and social attributes of their products to their electronic contracts so that 
customers can use the information in their purchasing process.  
INCREASING TRANSITION RISK
INCREASING PHYSICAL RISK
AGGRESSIVE
CLIMATE
ACTION
<2ºC Scenario
(IPCC RCP2.6)
Global collaboration to 
reduce GHG emissions 
in an aggressive 
way to meet Paris 
Agreement goals.
INSUFFICIENT
CLIMATE
ACTION
-2.5ºC Scenario
(IPCC RCP4.5)
Uncoordinated 
response that is 
insufficient to 
meet Paris 
Agreement goals.
NO
CLIMATE
ACTION
-4ºC Scenario
(IPCC RCP8.5)
GHG emissions 
continue increasing 
with no change to 
policies, leading to 
significant physical risk.
2050 CLIMATE SCENARIOS
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  62
Water Stewardship
WHY IT MATTERS
Access to safe water is a fundamental human right. Water is essential to the 
well-being of our communities and the environment and is necessary for 
our mines, smelters, processing facilities and reclamation projects. Many 
of our operations are in arid environments where competition for water 
supply is significant. Although we typically have sufficient water for our 
Indonesia operations, the PT-FI Highlands area receives considerable rainfall 
that makes management of excess water supply the primary challenge. 
The unique circumstances at each of our operations reinforce the critical 
importance of managing the impacts of our activities on water availability and 
quality, optimizing our water utilization and respecting the rights of others.
OUR APPROACH
Freeport believes effective water stewardship means maximizing our water 
use efficiency so that we can minimize our use of new freshwater. This 
includes shifting our water supplies to more sustainable sources, minimizing 
negative impacts from our operations on water quality and availability in a 
local catchment, and supporting the development of access to previously 
unknown, unavailable or undeveloped water resources.
In addition to focusing on our own water-related supply risks surrounding 
our operations, water stewardship also means we are focused on promoting 
long-term water security for all. We recognize the importance of working 
collaboratively with our stakeholders to secure access to water in a socially 
and environmentally responsible manner, and we are dedicated to improving 
our water programs over time.
Policies & Programs
Globally, our objective is to identify, manage and mitigate both our current 
and future water-related risks to secure the necessary water resources vital 
to support our operations over the long term, while equitably supporting the 
rights and well-being of our local community partners and ecosystems.
Our global water management program goals are the following: (1) improve 
water use efficiency in our processes, (2) minimize use of freshwater at our 
operations, (3) reduce our water footprint by transitioning to renewable 
or recycled water sources, and (4) monitor our impact on the surrounding 
communities and environment by continually reviewing water supplies and 
future requirements. 
We support, and are in the process of implementing, the ICMM Water 
Position Statement, which outlines our commitment to public reporting and 
responsible water use, including strong and transparent water governance, 
effective water management and collaboration towards achieving 
responsible and sustainable water use. In 2020, we published our 2019 
Water Report to enhance transparency and accountability of our water 
management, which is available on our website.
Cerro Verde, in partnership  with the Government of Arequipa, provides 
clean drinking water in Arequipa, Peru (photo captured pre-COVID-19).
UNDERSTANDING OUR WATER RISKS
Our global operations are in geographically and climatically diverse 
locations that range from arid deserts in Arizona, U.S., to extremely arid 
and high altitudes in the Atacama Desert in Calama, Chile, to one of the 
wettest places on earth in Papua, Indonesia. In many instances, we share a 
freshwater source or catchment with other users, such as local communities, 
municipalities and agricultural or industrial organizations.
The number of water risk regions with poor water quality or scarce supply 
is increasing globally. In some regions, water stress is increasing due to 
growing populations in communities where multiple new regional users 
are accessing limited freshwater sources. Climate change is expected to 
exacerbate these trends.
To effectively manage our water-related risks, we seek to understand the 
various and continually changing physical environments, hydrological systems 
and sociopolitical and regulatory contexts of each of our operations. The 
context and near-term water supply risks that exist near our operations are 
summarized in the table below. Risk factors include climate conditions, water 
sources, baseline water stress, excess water and access challenges.
This water risk assessment is an iterative process that we aim to update 
periodically. Over time, we plan to assess and, when appropriate, integrate 
additional critical risks to our water supply risk analysis – such as water quality, 
reputational risks and shared water resource management – and in due course, 
the potential longer-term impacts associated with climate change. 
WATER SUPPLY RISKS
OPERATION
CLIMATE CONDITIONS1
WATER SOURCES2
WATER SUPPLY RISKS
WATER STRESS3
EXCESS
WATER
ACCES S 
CHALLENGES4
Bagdad (Arizona)
Arid; Semi-desert
Groundwater, Surface water, Stormwater, Third-party5
Low-Med
Cerro Verde (Arequipa, Peru)
Arid; Desert
Groundwater, Surface water, Stormwater, Third-party5
High
X
Chino (New Mexico)
Arid; Semi-desert
Groundwater, Stormwater, Third-party5
Low-Med
Climax (Colorado)
Snow; Fully humid
Groundwater, Surface water, Stormwater
Low-Med
X
El Abra (Calama, Chile)
Arid; Desert
Groundwater, Stormwater
Extremely High
X 
Henderson (Colorado)
Snow; Fully humid
Groundwater, Surface water, Stormwater
Med-High
X
Miami (Arizona)
Arid; Semi-desert
Groundwater, Surface water, Stormwater, Third-party5
Med-High
X
X
Morenci (Arizona)
Arid; Semi-desert
Groundwater, Surface water, Stormwater, Third-party5
Med-High
X
PT-FI (Papua, Indonesia)
Tropical; Fully humid
Groundwater, Surface water, Stormwater
Low
X
Safford (Arizona)
Arid; Semi-desert
Groundwater, Stormwater
Med-High
X 
Sierrita (Arizona)
Arid; Semi-desert
Groundwater, Stormwater
Med-High
X
Tyrone (New Mexico)
Arid; Semi-desert
Groundwater, Surface water, Stormwater
Low-Med
1 	 Climate conditions based on the Köppen-Geiger climate classification terminology. 
2 	 Water sources can include groundwater, surface water, stormwater, sea water, or third-party sources (including effluent).
3 	 Baseline water stress ratings are defined by a combination of the World Resources Institute’s (WRI) Aqueduct tool and its associated descriptors for baseline water stress, as well as our own qualitative assessments and local knowledge of 
the site-specific circumstances of withdrawal at each operation. For a more in-depth discussion, see our 2019 Water Report. 
4 	 Access challenges can include legal challenges or potential changes in law or regulations that could impact our access to certain water supplies.
5 	 Third-party water sources are primarily sourced from wastewater effluent. 
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  64
PERFORMANCE
Our company-wide water balance demonstrates how much water we 
withdraw, consume and discharge. We obtain new water through permits, 
legal rights and leases for groundwater, including the dewatering of our 
mines, rainfall and surface water sources, such as lakes or rivers. At certain 
operations, water also is sourced from stormwater and third-party sources 
(predominantly effluent). New water withdrawn from these sources, 
together with reused and recycled water from our ore processing plants, 
water treatment plants and tailings facilities, make up the total water used 
across our global operations.
Each site maintains water balance analyses to assess their water use, 
consumption and discharge quantities. These analyses, which include the use 
of ground water and hydrologic models, are used to track performance and to 
understand our water balance and water availability. 
With this information, we can identify opportunities to minimize water 
loss, such as evaporation, maximize recycle and reuse water, and maintain 
compliance with water quality standards. Taken together, these ongoing 
studies inform our efforts to reduce our overall water utilization – including 
requirements for new freshwater – where operational efficiencies and 
production requirements permit. 
TOTAL INPUTS
261,299
WATER INPUTS
TOTAL OUTPUTS
268,715
WATER OUTPUTS
TOTAL RECYCLED / REUSED
1,231,053
OPERATIONS
Processing Plants
Tailings / Waste Storage
Storage
Treatment
RECYCLED RATE
82%
Most water needs 
are met with the
RECYCLING 
AND REUSE
of water within 
our operations
89% WATER USE EFFICIENCY  
2020 WATER BALANCE (THOUSAND M3)
Water recycle / reuse 
rate = total water 
reused + recycled / 
Total water utilized
Water use efficiency 
= total water reused 
+ recycled / (Total 
water utilization – 
Discharged Water)
37+19+19+16+9+J
62+38+J
Groundwater	
37%
Surface water	
19%
Sea water	
19%
Stormwater	
16%
Third-party sources	
9%
Consumption	
62%
Discharge (off-site)	
38%
89%
WATER USE
EFFICIENCY
IN 2020
Water Use Efficiency
We used less water in 2020 compared to prior years because of mill 
curtailments at Cerro Verde, Morenci and Chino in response to COVID-19 
and global economic uncertainty. Our objective to maintain high rates 
of recycled or reused water remained unchanged, and our efficiency 
performance has exceeded 85% in recent years. In 2020, our operations 
used 1,492,352 thousand cubic meters of water, including new freshwater 
withdrawals of 261,299 thousand cubic meters. Of our total water use, 
82% was from recycled or reused sources. By accounting for discharge 
quantities of 101,963 thousand cubic meters, our water use efficiency was 
89% for 2020.
WATER PERFORMANCE
(THOUSAND CUBIC METERS)
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
Total New Water Withdrawn1
302,464  
275,037  
310,620  
302,564  
261,299  
Total Water Recycled / Reused
1,399,835  
1,285,206  
1,377,971  
1,408,513  
1,231,053  
Total Utilized Water
(Withdrawn + Recycled/Reused)
1,702,299  
1,560,243  
1,688,591  
1,711,077 
1,492,352  
Water Recycle / Reuse Rate2
82%
82%  
82%  
82%  
82%  
Total Water Discharged3
N/A  
N/A  
106,183  
95,885   
101,963  
Water Use Efficiency4 (%)
N/A
N/A
87%  
87% 
89%
1	 New water withdrawal includes new water that is received or extracted by operation and used for the first time. New water withdrawals include high quality 
freshwater and lower quality water and are categorized by type: groundwater, surface water, stormwater, sea water or third-party water. Water withdrawals 
exclude water diverted away from operational areas without use.
2	 Water recycle / reuse rate = (total water recycled + reused) / total water utilized.
3	 Water discharged is water removed from an operation and returned to the environment or a third-party after meeting all required treatment and discharge 
standards. In 2018, we began calculating water discharged and water use efficiency rate. 
4	
Water use efficiency rate = total water recycled + reused / (total water utilization – discharged water).
Total Water Use (New + Recycled / Reused)
New Water Withdrawn
15+14+16+15+13
85+78+84+86+75
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
0
500,000 
1,000,000 1,500,000 2,000,000
RECYCLED WATER VS. NEW WATER USE
(THOUSAND CUBIC METERS)
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  66
EL ABRA SUPPORTS WATER RESILIENCE FOR ASCOTÁN COMMUNITY
Some of our operations support access to water for local communities by 
providing drinking water and sanitation facilities. Access to these services is 
site specific but can include treated water, drilling boreholes, upgrading or 
building treatment plants and improving water-related infrastructure such 
as pipelines. Our El Abra operations in Chile has been supplying drinking 
water to a small indigenous community in Ascotán since 2009 (inauguration 
of the water plant pictured to the left). The site built a reverse osmosis plant 
at the Ascotán makeup water booster station to produce and supply potable 
drinking water for the community. The makeup water is pumped out of the 
Ascotán wells field (saline water from the aquifer). The Ascotán community 
is the plant’s formal owner; however, El Abra continues to operate the plant, 
and the environmental team conducts routine chlorine monitoring to verify 
the drinking water fulfills the government water standards.
RESILIENCE & PREPARING FOR THE LONG TERM
Some of our operations are in challenging environments where enhancing 
resilience to the impacts of water risks is a critical part of our daily operations. 
This includes the health, safety and production risks of heavy rains, arid 
environments or heat-related occupational illness. To prepare our operations 
for potentially severe weather-related events in the future, we strive to take a 
holistic approach to risk management and preventive planning.
Company-wide processes to address risks, including climate, cover the full 
life cycle of our assets – from a pre-project sustainability review process 
to resiliency planning for reclamation and closure. Upon completion of 
our climate scenario analysis that is currently underway, we will seek to 
enhance these processes with any key findings. Each of our sites use water-
balance models with robust precipitation forecast mechanisms, including 
available information on historical weather patterns at the regional level 
that provide data on potential climate patterns. 
These models consider the effects of short-term extreme weather events 
as well as prolonged wet and dry seasons and provide the teams the ability 
to consider various scenarios in our risk reviews. As information in this area 
progresses and becomes more actionable, we have processes in place that 
will allow us to consider their effects and provide the teams the ability to 
adjust for specified climate scenarios.
We recognize that climate change can be a potential amplifier of existing water 
risks. As part of our climate strategy and commitment to TCFD reporting, in 
2020, we initiated a comprehensive climate change scenario analysis with 
support from an external third-party consultant to identify potential climate-
related risks and opportunities across the business, which includes water. 
We will be reporting on the scenario analysis and key recommendations to 
enhance resilience in our upcoming 2020 Climate Report.
Biodiversity
WHY IT MATTERS 
Biodiversity is critical to maintaining resilient ecosystems, which provide 
people with valuable resources, like food and water, necessary to support 
a good quality of life. The impacts of climate change, such as prolonged 
droughts and wildfires, are having a significant impact on biodiversity 
globally. Freeport is committed to proactively managing the impacts of our 
mining operations on the environment, including its biodiversity. 
OUR APPROACH
Freeport seeks to avoid or minimize the adverse impacts of our operations 
on biodiversity and ecosystem services while promoting opportunities to 
contribute to the conservation and enhancement of biodiversity in the areas 
where we operate.
Our conservation initiatives aim to produce benefits for both biodiversity 
and people, build trust, and support our social license to operate. We 
seek to engage our employees, local communities and other interested 
stakeholders in this work. We foster diverse partnerships with global 
stakeholders across private, public, and civil sectors to achieve greater 
accountability and promote the long-term efficacy for our biodiversity 
projects. These collaborations often serve as the basis for our community 
outreach and STEM education opportunities to help build capacity for 
learners of all ages. 
In 2020, we continued our efforts to implement the mitigation hierarchy – a 
framework that emphasizes best practices for managing biodiversity and 
ecosystem services through the avoidance, minimization, restoration and 
offsetting of impacts. During the year, we developed a global guidance for 
consistent and rigorous application of the mitigation hierarchy through which 
we aim to manage risks and potential impacts with the long-term ambition of 
"no net loss" for new mines and major expansion projects at existing mines. 
We recognize the mitigation hierarchy is most effective when implemented 
during the earliest phases of project planning to help maximize opportunities for 
avoidance and minimization of impacts. In 2021, we are working to integrate the 
hierarchy into our existing project development process, and we are training our 
environmental and operational teams to support its routine use.
Policies & Programs
In addition to our Environmental Policy, which states our commitment to 
contribute to the conservation of biodiversity, and our EMS, our framework 
for understanding the potential impacts of our operations on biodiversity, we 
implement the following:
›	 ICMM Position Statement on Mining and Protected Areas – 
We address the commitments in our operational practices, including 
committing to no mining nor exploring in UNESCO World Heritage Sites.
›	 Wildlife Habitat Council’s Conservation Certification (WHC) – 
We participate in the certification program, which formally recognizes 
meaningful biodiversity conservation, environmental education 
and community outreach programs. Eighteen of our operating sites 
and facilities currently are certified through WHC, 14 of which are 
recognized with gold-tier certifications.  
OFFSET
RESTORE / REHABILITATE
MINIMIZE
AVOID
NO NET LOSS
MITIGATION HIERARCHY
CERRO VERDE GUANACO CONSERVATION WORKSHOP
In November, Cerro Verde conducted a four-day virtual conservation 
event on the guanaco in collaboration with the International Union 
for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). Under Peruvian law, guanacos 
are considered a Critically Endangered species, and Cerro Verde 
implements a formal Biodiversity Action Plan to mitigate impacts to 
significant biodiversity resources. 
Peruvian and international experts discussed research and 
conservation strategies on guanacos and evaluated Cerro Verde’s 
own guanaco conservation program. The first three days were an 
in-depth review of the program with experts from IUCN and the 
biodiversity teams of Cerro Verde and El Abra. On the final day, IUCN 
experts, scientists from local research institutions, and local and 
national authorities shared research on the guanaco. 
Over 200 participants attended and provided recommendations, such 
as using remote sensing for monitoring, to enhance Cerro Verde’s 
Biodiversity Action Plan in addition to strategies for the broader 
scientific community and regional regulators. Participants concluded 
that guanacos’ sustainability depends on identifying threats and 
establishing a legal framework to protect them. Participants 
commended Cerro Verde for its work and praised the event as an 
excellent example of responsible mining practices.
AMERICAS
We implement a variety of programs and strategies at our operations 
to proactively identify and mitigate biodiversity risks while promoting 
conservation opportunities. All of our North American sites implement 
Wildlife Protection Plans based on adaptive management principles to 
effectively address biodiversity risks resulting from operational and 
ecological changes at the sites. Several sites also implement risk-based 
Avian Protection Plans that focus specifically on minimizing potential risks 
to migratory birds. 
In South America, our El Abra operations in Chile and Cerro Verde 
operations in Peru implement programs to protect and enhance 
biodiversity within the area of influence of their mining operations. In 
addition, the scope of the biodiversity program at El Abra includes the 
Ascotán salt flat area. These programs are designed to mitigate impacts 
to significant biodiversity resources.  
Education & Biodiversity Outreach Programs
In 2020, many of our typical in-person biodiversity and conservation 
education activities shifted to virtual activities. To commemorate Earth 
Day 50, Freeport and WHC promoted at-home activities, such as backyard 
invasive species removal and pollinator garden plantings. During 
International Bat Week, at our Sierrita, Bisbee, Safford and Morenci 
operations, we held small, socially distanced events to plant agaves, an 
important source of food for nectar-feeding bats.  
Our Atlantic Copper operations in Huelva, Spain, sit along the banks of 
the Odiel River and are adjacent to the Marismas del Odiel Natural Park, a 
UNESCO Biosphere Reserve. In 2020, the site followed COVID-19 mitigation 
protocols and continued its School of Explorers project, where students 
stay five days in the park to learn about the importance of the preserve and 
biodiversity. More than 3,750 children have participated in the project since 
its inception in 2012.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  68
PERFORMANCE
We conduct site-specific, multi-year biodiversity programs either voluntarily or for regulatory purposes. Due to 
COVID-19 restrictions in 2020, some of these programs were temporarily deferred. These programs are designed to 
address the most significant biodiversity issues at each site, including the following:
SITE / LOCATION
2020 BIODIVERSITY HIGHLIGHTS
Tyrone (New Mexico), Miami 
& Morenci (Arizona)
Sites continued implementation of management plans developed in consultation with the U.S. 
Fish and Wildlife Service to support conservation of federally-listed species such as the 
spikedace and loach minnow fish and southwestern willow flycatcher birds. Various activities 
were deferred in 2020 due to COVID-19 restrictions, including wildlife surveys and a planned 
bighorn sheep capture with Arizona Game and Fish at Morenci. 
Tyrone & Chino (New Mexico)
Morenci & Tohono (Arizona)
In accordance with their Avian Protection Plans, these sites continued to implement several 
measures to minimize risks to birds throughout the year. 
Safford (Arizona)
Employee volunteers at Safford constructed homes for burrowing owls at a new location directly 
adjacent to the company’s Central Analytical Service Center on the San Simon River in 
collaboration with Wild At Heart, an Arizona birds of prey rescue and rehabilitation organization. 
Six owls were released into the new burrows. Monitoring is ongoing at this location as well as at a 
previous location in the area.
Henderson (Colorado)
In 2020, Henderson continued long-term monitoring of the boreal toad population that occupies 
several ponds on the site. The 2020 monitoring results indicated the largest boreal toad 
population that Henderson has observed in several years. 
Cerro Verde (Peru)
Cerro Verde advanced conservation programs to protect endemic cacti and endangered species, 
including the guanaco and long-nosed bat, and continued monitoring aquatic and avian species in 
the Chili River. 
El Abra (Chile)
El Abra constructed and opened a greenhouse to help propagate two species of flora that grow 
under the extreme conditions of the Ascotán salt flat at 3,700 meters above sea level. The 
greenhouse employs local indigenous Ascotán community members and can house up to 15,000 
adult plants. In 2021, conservation work will include aerial monitoring, soil studies and 
maintenance work in the nursery as well as acclimatization and transplant of the plants to their 
natural habitat. 
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  70
INDONESIA
PT-FI’s operations and support area encompass multiple ecosystems and 
host one of the richest and most biodiverse regions in the world. From the 
mangrove forests on the coasts, the land blends into a swamp forest, then 
into the Lowland rainforests, heath forests, montane forests, and finally, 
subalpine and alpine forests in the Highlands. 
The PT-FI area is adjacent to the Lorentz National Park, the largest 
protected area in Southeast Asia and the only protected area in the world 
that incorporates continuous intact tracts of ecosystems from alpine to 
tropical marine environments, including extensive Lowland wetlands. In 
1999, Lorentz National Park was declared a World Heritage Site by the 
United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO). 
Conserving and protecting Papua’s biodiversity and ecosystems is a high 
priority for both PT-FI and Freeport. Since 1994, PT-FI has collaborated with 
national and international scientists on comprehensive surveys of vegetation, 
mammals, birds, amphibians, reptiles, freshwater fish, aquatic insects and 
terrestrial insects. These surveys are conducted regularly to provide the latest 
information to better understand these ecosystems and potential mine-
related impacts on biodiversity. Using the gathered information, we develop 
appropriate biodiversity conservation programs using principles of restoration 
ecology for rehabilitation and restoration of disturbed areas in the Grasberg 
minerals district. 
Through PT-FI’s biodiversity programs, we recognize the important role 
biodiversity plays in sustainability and seek to establish strong partnerships 
with multiple stakeholder groups involved in conservation and natural 
resource management, including governments, NGOs, universities, and 
research organizations and citizens. PT-FI supports management of local 
biodiversity for the region, including monitoring, restoration, reclamation 
and reforestation, and provides extensive biodiversity education, research 
and information opportunities.
NEW GUINEA HIGHLAND WILD DOG IN THE PAPUAN HIGHLANDS
Recent research confirmed the genetic signature of a rare 
species of wild dog, the New Guinea Highland Wild Dog, which 
inhabit the surrounding area near our operations at PT-FI. This 
rare species of wild dog, known as the “singing dog” for its 
distinctive and harmonizing howls, was once considered extinct.
PT-FI has supported research by James K. McIntyre, founder and 
director of field research at the New Guinea Highland Wild Dog 
Foundation, and scientists from the University of Papua since 
2016. Their research results revealed significant differences in 
the species’ biological makeup and behavior when compared 
to other modern canine species. Highland Wild Dogs have 
particularly flexible joints and spines, allowing them to jump 
and climb like a cat or monkey. While their existence was first 
documented in 1897, Highland Wild Dogs likely arrived in Papua 
approximately 3,500 years ago. 
Biodiversity Education & Outreach Programs
Education and outreach are major focuses of PT-FI’s biodiversity efforts, 
including construction of wildlife sanctuaries and the creation of the Natural 
Succession Discovery Park on a former tailings disposal area to serve as 
an outdoor education classroom. PT-FI has established wildlife areas and 
partners with local schools for education outreach and provides internships 
at its on-site nursery for high school and college students. 
In 2020, before COVID-19 restrictions, over 1,000 schoolchildren visited 
the Natural Succession Discovery Park and 100 volunteers supported PT-FI 
planting mangroves in the estuary.
Research & Monitoring
PT-FI conducts extensive research and monitoring in area ecosystems 
ranging from approximately 4,000 meters above sea level to coastal and 
marine areas. Routine flora and fauna monitoring is conducted through 
collaboration with consultants, research organizations and universities. 
Existing biodiversity research on Papua has been limited with most research 
and publications available focusing on Papua, New Guinea, which is to the 
east of Papua, Indonesia. 
Continued Re-Vegetation & Restoration
In coastal areas throughout the world, mangroves are decreasing due to 
erosion or to the conversion of the mangrove for agriculture. PT-FI actively 
works to create and establish new mangrove habitats in the new areas created 
by sediment at the Modified Ajkwa Deposition Area (ModADA) by cultivating 
seeds of mangrove trees for two to three years and then propagating them. 
In particular, the Ajkwa and Waii Islands in the Ajkwa Estuary in the Lowlands 
have seen accelerated mangrove colonization resulting from approximately 
401 hectares of total mangrove planting through 2020.
Progressive Reclamation & Restoration
The sub-alpine ecosystems at PT-FI in the Highlands have resulted in 
reclamation of almost 432 hectares of overburden stockpile areas with 
native plant species. 
Protection of Flora & Fauna
Flora and fauna from Papua often become the object of illegal trade. 
Countering illegal wildlife trade is a priority for Papua’s natural resource 
agencies and part of PT-FI’s commitment to biodiversity conservation. 
PT-FI cooperates with the Indonesia Animal Rescue Center, Papua Regional 
Police, Forest Protection and Nature Conservation, Forest Rangers, Forestry 
Department, Lorentz National Park Center, and Wasur National Park Center 
to repatriate protected animals to their habitats. In 2020, we supported and 
facilitated the translocation of Papuan endemic birds from North Sumatra 
back into Papua. This included three birds of paradise, 11 cockatoo, and 
one ecletus parrot. We also conducted repatriation of 23 Black capped 
lories, two rainbow lorikeet, two cockatoo to habitat in Kuala Kencana 
Forest and supported the repatriation of 40 pig-nosed turtles. To date, PT-FI 
has assisted in releasing back into their natural habitat more than 46,000 
pig-nosed turtles, 162 black-capped lories, 21 dusky pademelons, seven 
yellow-crested cockatoos and six double-wattled cassowary.
PT-FI's biodiversity program 
includes a significant focus on 
education and outreach.
Members of the PT-FI environmental monitoring team survey mangrove growth 
in the tailings deposition area in Indonesia (photo captured pre-COVID-19).
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  72
Tailings Stewardship
WHY IT MATTERS
The health and safety of our workforce, host communities and the environment are fundamental to Freeport’s extensive 
tailings management programs. Tailings are the finely ground natural rock particles or by-products that remain after the 
economically valuable minerals have been processed and extracted from the mined ore. Typically, our tailings comprise 
a slurry of finely ground natural rock particles, which are transported from processing facilities to management and 
storage facilities. We recognize a failure of tailings facilities and other impoundments at any of our mining operations 
could cause severe – and in some cases catastrophic – property and environmental damage as well as loss of life.
OUR APPROACH
Freeport has comprehensive measures in place to ensure our facilities are designed, built, operated and monitored to 
minimize risk to employees, neighboring host communities and the environment. We have a strong commitment from 
our Board and executive management to provide the necessary financial and technical resources to maintain the safety 
of our facilities and the integrity of our tailings management systems, with a focus on continuous improvement.  
Our tailings management and stewardship program, which involves qualified external engineers of record and 
periodic oversight by independent tailings review boards and stewardship teams, adheres to applicable regulations 
and various national and international guidelines. The program also conforms with the tailings governance 
framework on preventing catastrophic failure of our tailings storage facilities adopted in December 2016 by ICMM. 
In 2020, as members of ICMM, we supported development of and committed to working towards implementation 
of the new Global Industry Standard on Tailings Management (the Tailings Standard). The Tailings Standard was 
developed through an independent, multi-stakeholder process co-convened by the United Nations Environment 
Programme, Principles for Responsible Investment and ICMM following the tragic 2019 tailings facility collapse 
at Brumadinho, Brazil. Through our membership in ICMM, Freeport played an active leadership role and provided 
constructive input in the development of the Tailings Standard. 
Formally launched in August 2020, the Tailings Standard is the first global standard for tailings management that can 
be applied to existing and future tailings facilities. The Tailings Standard has been integrated into ICMM’s existing 
member commitments, and ICMM members have agreed that all tailings facilities with ‘Extreme’ or ‘Very high’ potential 
consequence ratings need to demonstrate conformance with the Tailings Standard within three years (by August 2023), 
and all other tailings facilities within five years (by August 2025). Freeport currently is advancing internal plans to meet 
this commitment. Also in 2020, Freeport chaired a subgroup of the ICMM Tailings Working Group to develop a guide to 
identifying and recommending best practices for the practical implementation of the Tailings Standard. 
TAILINGS MANAGEMENT 
& STEWARDSHIP
MULTI-TIERED
OVERSIGHT
MONITORING & TECHNOLOGY
LEARNING FROM
PAST EXPERIENCES
COMMUNICATION & ACTION
ENGINEERING & DESIGN
AMERICAS
Freeport affiliates in the Americas currently operate 17 active tailings 
storage facilities (TSFs) – 15 in the U.S. and two in Peru – and manage
 56 inactive or reclaimed (closed) TSFs in the U.S.
Our objective is to have zero catastrophic structural failures of, and 
unplanned discharges from, any of our TSFs. Our programs consider the 
significant consequences that would result from a potential failure or 
unplanned discharge. To materially reduce the likelihood of failures and 
unplanned discharges, we employ substantial engineering expertise, 
technological monitoring (including remote sensing), and local and 
corporate management oversight to validate that these facilities are 
designed, built, operated and monitored to minimize risk to employees, 
neighboring host communities and the environment. These safeguards 
generally fall within four categories: (1) engineering and design, (2) 
rigorous adherence to construction and operational parameters through 
monitoring and use of technology, (3) multi-tiered oversight, and (4) 
adherence to practices grounded in continuous improvement and learning 
from past experiences, including industry failures and best practices. The 
safeguards are effectively implemented through the promotion of open 
and ongoing communication throughout the organization and a bias for 
action at all levels.
FACILITIES BY DESIGN & STATUS
UPSTREAM
CENTERLINE
DOWNSTREAM
Active
12
5
–
Inactive or closed
51
5
–
Governance
In addition to CRC oversight, Freeport maintains multi-tiered oversight 
of the TSFs at its operational sites:
›	 Engineer of Record (EoR) – External resource provides expert 
design and engineering analysis, technical support, inspection, 
review and guidance to achieve design intent.
›	 Tailings Stewardship Team (TST) – Third-party engineer and 
internal expert team inspects all tailings facilities, reviews 
documents and monitoring data, identifies potential deficiencies and 
recommends corrective actions.
›	 Technical Review Boards (TRB) – Third-party internationally known 
expert panels provide independent opinions and guidance on the 
physical integrity, safety and performance of our TSFs and management 
systems and has direct access to corporate senior leadership.
›	 Corporate Senior Leadership – Participates in key decisions 
and provides resources to site management.
›	 Corporate Tailings and Water Team – Provides technical resources, 
guidance and direction to site tailings team along with development 
and review of program initiatives.
›	 Site Tailings Management, Engineers and Operations – 
Implements the program and regularly monitors, identifies and 
addresses potential risks.
For closed and inactive sites, we have a similar oversight structure 
that reports through the Vice President and Chief Sustainability Officer and 
includes the same roles for site-level engineers, EoRs, TSTs and 
TRB structures.
Tailings Review Board inspection of Chino tailings 
facility in New Mexico (photo captured pre-COVID-19).  
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  74
Performance
In a typical year, our EoRs and site engineers conduct in-person inspections 
of our TSFs multiple times, our TSTs visit all active sites and select inactive 
or closed sites, and our TRBs visit select sites as part of their quadrennial 
review schedule. This ongoing review and inspection process results in 
recommended actions, which we track until implemented. 
In 2020, COVID-19 restrictions and travel bans prevented on-site visits from 
EoRs and TST / TRB members for most of the year, forcing us to place greater 
emphasis on remote monitoring to supplement inspections of our facilities. 
While remote technologies do not replace the benefits of on-the-ground 
inspections, the innovative systems we have proactively implemented in 
recent years to enhance our stewardship program enabled our monitoring 
and inspections to continue without significant interruption.  
Some of our remote sensing technologies and platforms include various 
satellite systems and in-house Unmanned Aerial Systems. These data 
(generally optical and radar) combined with powerful geospatial software 
made it possible to quickly develop web-based and mobile computing 
applications, providing information and situational awareness to our 
engineers and operators despite reduced time in the field. 
The data we collect is used to calculate engineering metrics, such as beach 
width, and to track general TSF operations, potential areas of movement, 
should that occur, and water body delineation over time. 
Data also feeds our internal key performance indicators and Early Indicator 
Dashboard – the internal management tool we use to aggregate critical and 
key measures of our facilities and to track performance against third-party 
recommendations, key performance indicators and other metrics. In 2020, 
we migrated our Americas sites with operating TSFs to a new internal portal 
that we began developing in 2019. We migrated TSFs at our inactive and 
closed sites in the first quarter of 2021. 
Increased use of remote technologies company-wide not only enhances 
situational awareness but also provides a frequently refreshed data set that 
our engineers and operators, both on-site and off-site, can use to make 
decisions daily. For example, sites use online imagery to monitor the location 
of their tailings ponds in relation to the outer slope of the embankment. 
Access to near-daily satellite imagery allows site-based engineers to safely 
monitor the location of these ponds and more efficiently plan their daily 
work. Remote sensing technology allows us to efficiently and accurately 
measure water on these large facilities. 
For more information on our tailings management and stewardship program, 
including a detailed review of our tailings facilities and their consequence 
classifications, please visit our website. 
Tailings facility at our Morenci 
operations in Arizona.
INDONESIA
PT-FI operates a controlled riverine tailings management system 
implemented based on methods approved and permitted by the Government 
of Indonesia. Tailings are transported from the concentrating facility along 
with water and a small quantity of concentrating reagents. Reagents added 
as part of the concentrating process have been demonstrated to dissipate 
within a short distance of the concentrating facility.
The PT-FI tailings management system uses an unnavigable river to 
transport the tailings from the concentrator in the Highlands along with 
natural sediments to a large engineered and managed deposition area in 
the Lowlands, called the Modified Ajkwa Deposition Area or ModADA. The 
river is not used for potable water, agriculture, fishing or other domestic or 
commercial uses. Levees have been constructed on both the east and west 
sides of the ModADA to laterally contain the depositional footprint of the 
tailings and natural sediment within the designated area. Quantities of finer 
tailings and other sediments deposit in the estuary and the sea to the south.
Independent, environmental management expert audits have reaffirmed 
this system is the best site-specific management alternative given the 
topographical, seismic and geotechnical, geological, climatological, and 
environmental conditions of the area. It has been in service for more than 
20 years and has performed safely and in line with initial design plans. 
A conventional style tailings dam in the Highlands would not be safe, 
stable, or effective. 
Governance
In addition to regular internal and external audits and assessments, 
PT-FI tailings management oversight includes the following:
›	 Freeport Corporate Senior Leadership – Participates in key 
decisions and provides resources to site management.
›	 Freeport Corporate Tailings and Water Team – Technical 
resource provides support and assists with guidance 
and direction for site tailings team and associated program 
initiatives.
›	 Site Tailings Management, Engineers and Operations – 
Implements the program and regularly monitors, identifies 
and addresses potential risks associated with the ModADA and 
coastal zone areas.
›	 External Design Engineer – External resource provides design, 
ongoing engineering support, periodic inspections and levee 
construction quality review.
›	 ModADA Management Board (MMB) – Multi-disciplinary 
expert panel that provides oversight and recommendations to 
PT-FI leadership and engineering teams on priority activities 
including safety, risks associated with the ModADA and coastal 
zone, the structural integrity of the levees, geochemical stability 
of the deposited sediments, environmental considerations and 
stakeholder engagement. 
PT-FI expects to spend approximately 
$85 million annually to manage and 
monitor the controlled system in 
coming years.
Performance
In 2020, PT-FI initiated a new environmental impact analysis (AMDAL) 
in preparation for the proposed extension of the east and west levees to 
safely maintain the tailings within the ModADA deposition area. The public 
announcement and initial public consultations were safely completed in 
mid-2020 with the nearby Indigenous Amungme and Komoro villages in line 
with COVID-19 protocols. The consultations aimed to educate them about 
the AMDAL process and establish their community representatives for the 
AMDAL Review Committee, which will meet in 2021.     
PT-FI and Indonesia’s Ministry of Environment and Forestry established a 
framework known as the Tailings Roadmap in December 2018 to support 
continuous improvement of PT-FI’s environmental practices. The framework 
includes the requirement for independent third parties to complete three 
studies focused on increasing tailings retention within the Lowlands, 
enhancing the protection of the coastal ecosystem and evaluating large-
scale beneficial uses of tailings within Indonesia.
In 2020, the PT-FI team continued supporting the required Roadmap studies 
including: 1) an evaluation of the scalability and economic viability of using 
tailings in transportation infrastructure, such as roads and bridges, and building 
infrastructure, such as prefabricated building walls, 2) a re-examination of the 
riverine tailings management options including the potential for a new cross-
levee, and 3) a valuation of the current estuary ecosystem status. Due in part to 
delays related to COVID-19 restrictions, these studies were not completed in 
2020 and are now expected to be finalized in 2021.     
PT-FI did meet its 2020 Tailings Roadmap commitment to increase tailings 
reuse by using more than one million metric tons of tailings as paste-fill 
in the Big Gossan Mine. PT-FI also is encouraging third-party use of 
tailings for infrastructure, however, the transportation costs may be 
economically prohibitive.  
During 2020, PT-FI continued to advance work on a human health risk 
assessment to evaluate the potential impacts of tailings and mining waste in 
the Highlands, Lowlands and estuary areas. The ongoing study, conducted 
by third-party expert consultants with PT-FI support, is assessing potential 
exposure pathways including surface waters, groundwaters, sediments and 
soils, dust and terrestrial and aquatic tissues. The study is expected to be 
completed in 2021 and we plan to provide a summary of the results.
Freshly deposited 
tailings sediments
After 2-3 years: 
shrubs & ferns
After 10 years: 
young forest
After 20-30 years: 
mature forest
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  76
NATURALLY OCCURRING RE-VEGETATION 
OF TAILINGS DEPOSITION AREA
PT-FI ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING PROGRAM  
PT-FI maintains an extensive environmental management and monitoring 
program to assess the potential current and future environmental impacts 
from its controlled riverine tailings system. PT-FI expects to spend 
approximately $85 million annually to manage and monitor the controlled 
system in coming years.
A multi-disciplinary, multi-department team routinely measures surface and 
groundwater quality, air quality, and biological, hydrological, sediment, and 
meteorological characteristics of the entire operations area. PT-FI collects 
around 15,000 samples for analysis annually (based on a five-year average), 
using the results to develop the scientific information needed to make 
informed management decisions with a focus on eliminating, minimizing 
or mitigating environmental impacts.
To support this effort, PT-FI established the Timika Environmental 
Laboratory or TEL, which is located within our operational area in the 
Lowlands town of Timika. The lab is certified to ISO 17025 quality standards 
from the Indonesian National Accreditation Committee and serves as the 
main analytical lab for sample analyses used in our monitoring programs. 
TEL is registered with the Ministry of Environment and Forestry as a 
Referenced Environmental Laboratory.
Impacts of the tailings system, including increases in sedimentation, 
were predicted in numerous studies and are consistent with the design 
and operation. Monitoring programs continue to indicate, except for 
elevation changes, the environmental impacts of the tailings deposition 
will be reversible at the end of the mine’s life. Large-scale demonstration 
reclamation projects show that several land use options will be possible 
after final closure of the deposition area. 
A multi-disciplinary, multi-department 
team routinely measures surface and 
groundwater quality, air quality, and 
biological, hydrological, sediment, and 
meteorological characteristics of the 
entire operations area.
Water monitoring and sampling at 
Grasberg operations in Indonesia
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  78
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  78
Waste Management
WHY IT MATTERS
In addition to mining and mineral processing wastes, such as tailings, waste 
rock, overburden and slag, our operations generate non-mining waste, which 
requires proper end-of-life management. Responsible management of all these 
materials is critical to complying with environmental regulations, maintaining 
community and environmental health, and social acceptance of our operations.
OUR APPROACH
Freeport is committed to reducing our environmental impact, which includes 
the effective management of our mining and non-mining wastes alike. The 
volume of mining and processing wastes varies depending on site operating 
plans. These materials are typically managed in designated, engineered 
stockpiles or impoundments as discussed in more detail in the prior Tailings 
Stewardship section. 
In addition to responsibly managing our mining and mineral processing 
waste, we continuously evaluate opportunities to reduce the quantity of 
non-mining waste generated. We implement robust practices to identify, 
categorize, store and manage non-mining wastes, and we strive to increase 
recycling and reuse of materials in our operations whenever possible. We 
evaluate our hazardous waste streams, and when possible, substitute 
materials with lower toxicity into our processes.
Policies & Programs
In addition to Freeport’s dedicated TSTs responsible for managing our 
mining and processing waste, we also have a dedicated global waste 
management team composed of subject matter experts from across the 
company. The team is responsible for advancing our technical expertise and 
developing leadership skills through multi-site collaboration. Our experts 
provide guidance to support global consistency in our waste management 
programs and the company’s Environmental Policy. The program identifies 
best practices and opportunities for continuous improvement. We follow local 
and national regulations and seek to meet or exceed industry best practices for 
disposing responsibly.
Overburden stockpile at Morenci operations in Arizona. 
Hazardous Waste
Non-Hazardous Waste
% Recycled
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
THOUSAND METRIC TONS
34%
38%
44%
42%
50%
2016
2017
2018 
2019
2020
NON-MINING WASTE GENERATED & RECYCLED
PERFORMANCE
In 2020, our mining and mineral processing wastes and our non-mining 
wastes were both down year over year, which was largely attributed to 
COVID-19 response and management, including revised operational plans 
at certain sites, deferred maintenance and the transition of certain staff to 
work from home arrangements.  
We generated 259 million metric tons of tailings, 349 million metric tons of 
waste rock and overburden and 629 thousand metric tons of slag in 2020. 
In addition to tailings, waste rock, overburden and slag, our operations also 
generate non-mining waste. Our non-mining wastes fall into two categories: 
(1) non-hazardous, such as tires, scrap metal, obsolete equipment, HDPE pipe, 
domestic waste and wood waste, and (2) hazardous, such as coal ash, water 
treatment sludge, chemicals, solvents, batteries, and reagent packaging. 
In 2020, we generated approximately 229,300 metric tons of non-mining 
wastes, of which 32% was hazardous and 68% was non-hazardous. 
When possible, our materials are evaluated for other end-of-life uses 
in accordance with applicable regulations and are recycled at our 
own operations or into the global value chain. Through our continuous 
improvement efforts, we have identified and implemented numerous waste 
minimization or recycling efforts across our operations. For example, 
from 2017-2020 we reduced the generation of hazardous wastewater 
treatment sludge at our Atlantic Copper smelter in Spain through operational 
improvements and process optimization resulting in a 43% reduction in 
sludge generated per ton of sulfuric acid neutralized. Coal Ash, a hazardous 
waste generated at PT-FI’s power plant in Indonesia, is fully reutilized 
to make concrete for site construction projects. In 2020, at our Morenci 
operations in Arizona, we identified a new opportunity to eliminate a waste 
stream that was previously landfilled by installing a screen to separate and 
recover ore and scrap metal and in recent years at our Miami smelter we 
have recycled slag, which provides iron to optimize hydro metallurgical 
metal recovery processes from leach ore.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  80
2020 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY  /  80
Mine Closure & Reclamation
WHY IT MATTERS
Mining requires the development of infrastructure such as open-pit mines, 
roads and processing facilities that can alter the natural environment. 
Mining companies are responsible for managing these impacts, which 
include reclamation of the land for post-mining use. The purpose of 
reclamation is to return areas impacted by mining and processing activities 
to a healthy state with lands that support productive post-mining land 
use. Freeport understands that effectively reclaiming disturbed land and 
responsibly closing our mine sites is critical to maintaining the trust of our 
local communities, governments and other interested stakeholders.
OUR APPROACH
Freeport’s reclamation and mine closure planning processes are integral 
to our site planning and ongoing operations. We engage local communities, 
governments and other interested stakeholders early and often on these 
issues, and we seek to minimize land disturbances whenever possible.
At each of our operations, we have mine closure and reclamation plans 
with site-specific environmental measures designed to minimize long-term 
impacts, promote ecosystem re-establishment and protect the watersheds 
where we operate. To support future anticipated closure and reclamation 
costs, each operating mine site has asset retirement obligations that are 
estimated and accounted for in accordance with GAAP and are audited by 
an independent accounting firm.
Due to the geological nature of the deposits and large resource base, most 
of our mining operations are long-lived, so implementation of closure plans 
may not occur for years or decades in the future.
Our reclamation programs incorporate multiple aspects associated with 
environmental management and community well-being, such as water 
and air quality, erosion, wildlife and grazing habitats, and revegetation 
programs, working together to advance ecosystem reestablishment. 
Although our traditional post-mining land use has been focused on wildlife 
habitats, we increasingly are exploring opportunities for open spaces, 
wildlife habitats, grazing habitats, recreational and educational uses, 
renewable energy sites, and new industrial uses of our lands post-closure. 
EXCELLENCE IN RECLAMATION IN COLORADO 
In recent years, our molybdenum operations in Colorado have been 
recognized multiple times by the Colorado Mining Association for 
their practices in reclamation and environmental stewardship. 
Henderson mine and mill received the award for 2020 Best of the Best 
in Environmental Stewardship and Climax mine received the 2020 
Excellence in Reclamation award. 
Over the last decade at our Henderson operations, we have worked with 
the local timber industry to treat nearby forests which were severely 
impacted by a Mountain Pine Beetle outbreak in the late 1990s and early 
2000s. Now that the majority of impacted forests have been treated, 
during the summer of 2020, Henderson focused efforts on enhancing 
future forests through the first Timber Stand Improvement project. The 
benefits from these treatments will result in increased tree vigor and 
health, variable wildlife habitat and reduced potential for wildfire. 
At our Climax mine, we embarked on a project to restore wetlands in Lake 
Irwin, an area heavily disturbed by previous mine-related activity. During 
Phase 1 of the restoration project, the team excavated a large amount 
of tailings and relocated material to one of Climax’s active Tailings 
Storage Facilities, redirected water back into Lake Irwin, added subsoil 
and locally harvested topsoil, and transplanted wetland plants from the 
impacted area to the restored area. When the project is complete, 32 
acres of constructed self-sustaining wetland will have been created, 
providing food, shelter and species-specific habitat to high elevation 
wetland dwelling flora and fauna.
