OUR APPROACH
The nature of our business impacts the environment and communities surrounding our 
operations. We mitigate impacts to the extent practicable through advanced control and 
remediation measures. We develop infrastructure, support health, safety and education 
efforts, and provide local employment and business development opportunities. The 
products we produce are critical for sustainability and higher standards of living.
To supply essential metals to current and future generations, we are guided by our 
stated business objectives, principles and policies, and we work continuously to improve 
our sustainable development programs. Throughout this report, we discuss the daily 
progress our workforce is making on key issues, including those emerging, which affect 
our company and our stakeholders.
PRINCIPLES OF BUSINESS CONDUCT
In February 2017, we launched the new Principles of Business Conduct (PBC) that 
highlights our core values of Safety, Respect, Integrity, Excellence and Commitment, 
and helps guide how we do business, from top-level management to entry-level 
employees. The PBC sets forth a variety of business situations, from promoting a safe 
workplace to complying with laws and avoiding conflicts of interests to developing 
positive relationships with local communities. Freeport-McMoRan and its affiliates 
have established multiple mechanisms for employees and others to report concerns 
regarding potential violations of the PBC. One of the primary mechanisms is the 
Freeport-McMoRan Compliance Line, a phone system managed by an independent third 
party that allows for anonymous reporting. In addition, the company offers a similar 
web-based reporting system, also operated by a third party, along with an option for 
direct email to our Compliance Department. These accessible channels complement our 
long-established community and human rights grievance systems. By providing multiple 
reporting mechanisms, including anonymous communications, workforce members are 
encouraged to Speak Up if something violates or, could possibly violate, the PBC.
The Freeport-McMoRan Supplier Code of Conduct sets forth our expectations for our 
supply chain partners in areas such as safety, respect for human rights, anti-corruption, 
community and environment. Our policies, along with external standards and initiatives, 
form the overall framework that guides our sustainability programs. Supporting this 
framework are internal governance and management systems that detail how we operate.
SUSTAINABILITY AND OUR BUSINESS
We have noted the continuous improvement and increasing maturity in our 
sustainability-focused, global risk management processes, particularly over the last 
eight years of third-party assurance. While we will continue to implement the ICMM 
Sustainable Development Framework, we are focusing our sustainability efforts on 
two key areas that provide a solid foundation for achieving our long-term business 
objectives.
First, we must maintain acceptance to operate through shared value at the local level in 
order to reinvest in our existing properties, plus new ventures, thereby increasing the 
production of metals needed for a healthy and prosperous world. 
We also understand that our sustainability performance is critical to meeting society’s, 
including our customers’, responsible sourcing objectives so that we can place our 
products into the global marketplace today and into the future. 
We will maintain our efforts to continuously improve all elements of our sustainability 
performance and are eager to engage with stakeholders on this continued journey.
6
Freeport-McMoRan
7
2016 Working Toward Sustainable Development Report
GOVERNANCE
The Freeport-McMoRan Board of Directors (board) as 
a whole is responsible for risk oversight, with reviews 
of certain areas being conducted by the relevant board 
committees that regularly report to the full board. In its 
risk oversight role, the board reviews, evaluates and 
discusses with members of management whether the 
risk management processes designed and implemented 
by management are adequate in identifying, assessing, 
managing and mitigating material risks. 
The board believes that full and open communication 
between senior management and the board is essential 
to effective risk oversight. Our non-executive chairman 
regularly meets with and discusses with our chief executive 
officer a variety of matters including business strategies, 
opportunities, key challenges and risks facing the company, 
as well as management’s risk mitigation strategies. Senior 
management attends regularly scheduled board meetings 
where they conduct presentations on various strategic 
matters involving our operations and are available to 
address any questions or concerns raised by the board on 
risk management-related or any other matters. The board 
oversees the strategic direction of the company, and in 
doing so, considers the potential rewards and risks of our 
business opportunities and challenges, and monitors the 
development and management of risks that impact our 
strategic goals.
The board has five standing committees: Audit, 
Compensation, Nominating and Corporate Governance, 
Corporate Responsibility and Executive, each of which is 
composed entirely of independent directors. The Corporate 
Responsibility Committee assists the board in fulfilling its 
oversight responsibilities, including with respect to the 
company’s 1) environmental policy and implementation 
programs; 2) human rights policy and practices; 3) 
safety and health policies and programs; 4) community 
health programs and related public health matters; 
and 5) community policy and practices, governmental 
and stakeholder relations, and social investment and 
sustainable development programs.
During 2016, the Corporate Responsibility Committee 
received various reports and considered numerous items 
with a particular focus on safety, which included reviewing 
the root causes of fatal accidents, corrective actions 
implemented to prevent accidents in the future, and 
improvement in our safety procedures and practices. In 
addition, the Corporate Responsibility Committee reviewed 
community medical and public health services including our 
malaria and other disease prevention programs in Indonesia 
and the DRC, our global social expenditures, community 
engagement efforts, political activity and spending 
practices, the safety reporting process at our operations, 
our risk management and sustainability programs, our 
human rights program, our product stewardship program, 
and our tailings stewardship program. The Corporate 
Responsibility Committee reports to our board, which 
provides oversight on all matters.
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT LEADERSHIP TEAM
The company’s Sustainable Development Leadership Team 
considers both imminent matters and emerging trends while 
providing strategic guidance for our programs. The team 
is sponsored by our Executive Vice President and Chief 
Administrative Officer, and is led by our Vice President of 
Environmental Services and Sustainable Development. Our 
Chief Operating Officer, business unit presidents, as well as 
Vice President-level or senior staff from the safety, supply 
chain, security, human resources, sales, legal/compliance, 
and land and water functions comprise the team. 
During 2016, the team reviewed and addressed key issues 
and projects including:
•	
Emerging global regulations and business-to-business 
initiatives related to product stewardship, including 
market access and sustainability performance in the 
value chain 
•	
Roll-out plan and training program for our updated 
Principles of Business Conduct: “Strength in Values” 
•	
Work plans for future Human Rights Impact 
Assessments, including at Cerro Verde in 2017
•	
New ICMM position statements on Water Stewardship 
and the Prevention of Catastrophic Failure of Tailings 
Storage Facilities
Bill Cobb, Vice President-Environmental Services and Sustainable 
Development works with Cerro Verde and El Abra sustainability 
professionals at a workshop in Arequipa, Peru.
8
Freeport-McMoRan
•	
Current and future contributions from operations to 
the UN Sustainable Development Goals
•	
Key observations related to independent assurance of 
our sustainability programs, including implementation 
of the ICMM Sustainable Development Framework
•	
Product control and custody procedures at TFM in 
the DRC
•	
Results of engagements with the socially 
responsible investment community and other 
financial stakeholders 
•	
Company practice of reporting government payments, 
including country-level participation in the Extractive 
Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI)
•	
Key themes and disclosures in our WTSD reporting
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Project life-cycles can span decades in the mining sector 
and our company maintains large, long-lived assets 
with significant proven and probable metal reserves. 
That is why early, ongoing and transparent engagement 
with stakeholders is critical. Doing so in a genuine 
and consistent manner creates mutually beneficial 
opportunities while reducing sustainability-related risks to 
our business plans. We seek strategic partnerships with 
host governments, communities and development partners 
to ensure the viability of our projects while making a 
positive contribution to sustainable development, including 
post-closure.
We formally engage with community stakeholders 
across our portfolio, development institutions and NGOs. 
Annually, hundreds of entities are engaged via community 
foundations, formal grievance systems, community liaison 
officer interactions, workshops, participatory group 
panels, town hall meetings and surveys. Engagement 
also occurs through regulatory consultation processes 
with local governments and community groups, including 
indigenous peoples. Mining operations maintain five-
year community engagement and development plans 
that specify affected or interested parties for ongoing 
engagement and consultation. Issues raised help inform 
each operation’s sustainable development risk register 
and assist in developing social investment and capacity-
building strategies. 
Freeport-McMoRan’s corporate Sustainable Development 
Department and senior personnel regularly work with 
asset owners and managers, banking institutions, multi-
stakeholder initiatives and NGOs to understand issues of 
concern or interest and where we may have influence to 
advance sustainability objectives. In 2016, our corporate 
team engaged with over 60 of these organizations on topics 
including fatality prevention, human rights, environmental 
management, revenue transparency, water resources and 
community development projects.
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP
Environmental and social performance of mining 
operations, as well as of the metals we produce, continues 
to be of interest to many stakeholders within the value 
chain, from customers to regulators. We view this trend as 
an opportunity to engage on the vital importance of our 
products for social progress as well as on our programs that 
guide responsible operating practices. 
Maintaining market access for our products allows us to 
remain a viable business entity. Members of our Product 
Stewardship team engage both downstream customers 
and international governmental agencies on operational 
and product-specific sustainability issues. We believe that 
proactive engagement on product stewardship matters can 
help reduce sustainability-related risks and ultimately enable 
us to continue to deliver positive contributions to society.
Our Product Stewardship team is led by our Vice President 
of Environmental Services and Sustainable Development 
and is coordinated with our global product sales and legal 
teams with support from multiple technical experts. 
Chino copper cathode is loaded onto a truck headed for 
Freeport-McMoRan’s rod mill in El Paso, Texas. To learn more 
about the societal benefits of copper, from renewable energy to 
public health, visit www.copperalliance.org.
OUR APPROACH
9
2016 Working Toward Sustainable Development Report
During 2016, the team addressed issues including:
•	
Business to business due diligence efforts related to 
sustainability policies, programs and performance of 
our operations
•	
Input into development of draft Organisation for 
Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) 
Minerals Risk Handbook
•	
European Union and European Commission proposals 
regarding responsible sourcing objectives for minerals
•	
Pending and final regulations related to chemicals 
management in the value chain
•	
Analysis and input regarding globally emerging 
regulations, or policies from international governmental 
agencies for product labeling requirements 
•	
Tracking and interfacing on the product stewardship 
work of trade associations, including the International 
Copper Association, ICMM, Cobalt Development 
Institute and International Molybdenum Association 
•	
Emerging nongovernmental sustainability certification, 
benchmarking and reporting initiatives
AUDITS AND ASSESSMENTS
To ensure implementation of our policy commitments 
and objectives, we utilize a combination of audit and 
assessment programs along with an annual program for 
site-level independent assurance of our sustainability 
framework that encompasses commitments of the ICMM 
Sustainable Development Framework. The health and safety 
management systems and environmental management 
systems of our operations obtain independent certification 
to Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series 
(OHSAS) 18001 and International Organization for 
Standardization (ISO) 14001, respectively. These systems 
include corrective and preventive action tracking for 
internal and external audit findings. Our Tailings Stewardship 
Program includes inspections and reviews all active and 
inactive tailings storage facilities. Engineers of Record 
also inspect our operating TSFs on a quarterly basis. In 
addition to our own audit programs, customers and financial 
institutions periodically request to conduct sustainability-
focused audits or assessments at certain facilities. Our 
operations are also routinely inspected by regulatory 
agencies of host governments.
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT RISK REGISTER
The Freeport-McMoRan Sustainable Development 
framework is implemented based on operation-specific 
factors and influences, including regional context, type of 
operation and social setting. Essential to this framework is 
the Sustainable Development Risk Register process, which 
prioritizes risks that could have the potential for negative 
consequences to our business and our stakeholders as 
it relates to areas including health and safety, respect for 
human rights, the environment, and community stability 
and economic impacts. The Sustainable Development 
Department and senior corporate multi-disciplinary 
personnel coordinate with operations to ensure prioritization 
processes are consistent with corporate procedures and 
provide guidance to ensure alignment of priorities and 
mitigation plans. 
Sustainability focus areas identified through this process 
at the global level are reviewed annually by our Sustainable 
Development Leadership Team and communicated 
to members of the board. The current focus areas are 
described on the following pages and throughout this report.
Members of the Tailings Stewardship Team (TST) inspect the 
Bagdad tailings dam as part of an annual audit. The TST is a multi-
disciplinary group of internal and external experts that evaluate 
the design, operation and maintenance of tailings storage 
facilities. The company operates 18 active and 52 inactive or 
closed tailings dams.
SUSTAINABILITY 
FOCUS AREAS
BIODIVERSITY
We own, lease and operate large land holdings, some of which are in and adjacent to areas 
of high biodiversity value. Our operations are managed to identify potential impacts and, 
where practicable, implement actions that conserve and enhance biodiversity, including 
during reclamation activities. (p. 32) 
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT
Our social and economic development programs are designed to be responsive to issues 
raised by communities, including vulnerable groups and indigenous peoples, and help 
us maintain good relations and avoid disruptions of operations. Nevertheless, social and 
political instability in the areas of our operations may adversely impact our operations. (p. 21)
CORRUPTION
As a U.S.-based mining company with substantial assets located outside of the U.S., 
our business may be adversely affected by issues related to corruption. Any violation of 
the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-corruption laws of jurisdictions in 
which we operate could result in significant criminal or civil fines and penalties, litigation, 
and loss of operating licenses or permits. We maintain a rigid anti-corruption training and 
reporting program. (p. 17)
ENERGY MANAGEMENT
Carbon-based energy is a significant input to our operations and increased regulation 
of greenhouse gas emissions may directly or indirectly increase our costs. In 2016, 
approximately 63 percent of our purchased power was from low carbon sources, 
including natural gas and renewable energy. We have modeled multiple carbon tax 
scenarios to understand the range of potential increases to our operating costs. (p. 26)
HUMAN RIGHTS
We are integrating the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights into our 
business systems to continue to improve management of potential human rights risks. 
Our operations may be adversely affected by impacts from security risks stemming 
from events or activities including political instability, labor strikes and civil strife. The 
Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights also serve as guidelines for our 
security and human rights programs. (p. 19)
We continue to deploy DreamBuilder: The Women’s Business Creator; a free, online entrepreneurial 
training program designed to assist women of all education levels. Graduate Patricia Quezada 
participates in an enterprise fair organized by the municipality of Calama, Chile.
10
Freeport-McMoRan
11
2016 Working Toward Sustainable Development Report
LABOR RELATIONS
Forty-seven percent of our global labor force was covered by collective labor agreements 
as of December 31, 2016. We engage openly with our employees and union leadership 
to successfully negotiate and uphold labor agreements recognizing that prolonged 
strikes or other work stoppages at our operations can adversely affect our business, our 
workforce and regional stakeholders. (p. 14)
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP
Our product stewardship team engages downstream customers and international 
governmental agencies on operation and product-specific sustainability issues. We 
believe that proactive engagement on product stewardship issues can help reduce risks 
associated with market access while enabling continued delivery of positive contributions 
to society. (p. 8)
SAFETY AND HEALTH
The safety of our global workforce is our highest priority. During 2016, we sadly incurred 
six fatalities and fell short of our Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) target. Through 
implementation of our Fatality Prevention program, we aim to completely eliminate 
fatalities by identifying and implementing critical controls and delivering technical 
training and communications throughout the workforce. (p. 15)
TAILINGS
Managing the volume of tailings, waste rock and leach material produced in our mining 
operations presents significant environmental, safety and engineering challenges and 
risks. We maintain large leach pads and tailings impoundments containing viscous 
material that must be engineered, constructed and monitored to assure structural 
stability and avoid leakages. Through our Tailings Stewardship Program we implement 
control systems, which include independent expert input and review to address these 
risks. (p. 29)
WATER SUPPLY AND MANAGEMENT
We recognize the importance of responsibly managing water resources at mining 
operations in both arid and wet regions. While all of our mining operations require secure 
and reliable quantities of water for mining and ore processing, most of our operations are 
located in arid regions of North America and South America. We maintain programs to 
promote efficient use of water and are advancing alternative water supply projects with 
external stakeholders. (p. 28)
Tom Butler, ICMM CEO (fifth from left), joins Freeport-McMoRan’s Red Conger along with 
other Freeport-McMoRan and Cerro Verde team members on a tour of company-funded water 
infrastructure projects in Arequipa, Peru.
12
Freeport-McMoRan
PERFORMANCE TARGETS
2016 
STATUS
2016 PERFORMANCE DESCRIPTION
TARGET
DATE
BUSINESS ETHICS
With our online training module, annually 
train 90% of targeted employees who interact 
with, or have the potential to interact with, 
government officials on anti-corruption 
laws, regulations and company policies 
and procedures
√
We conduct comprehensive training on our Principles of 
Business Conduct for all employees. Management-level 
employees receive annual certification and approximately 
97% were trained in 2016.
Annually 
Recurring
WORKFORCE
Increase the percentage of women in our 
workforce, including representation in 
managerial positions, to 15%
X
Women comprise 10% of our employee population and hold 
10% of all managerial positions, which is relatively unchanged 
from recent years. 
Ongoing
SAFETY & HEALTH 
Incur zero fatalitiesa
X
Sadly, we incurred six work-related fatalities at our mining 
operations in 2016.
Annually 
Recurring
Meet company-wide total recordable incident 
rate (TRIR)a of 0.56
 X
Our TRIRa was 0.64 for 2016.
Annually 
Recurring
HUMAN RIGHTS
Incur zero grossb human rights violations 
at our operations caused by employees 
and contractors
√ 
We did not incur any gross human rights violations at our 
operations caused by employees or contractors.
Annually 
Recurring
COMMUNITIES
Invest (in aggregate) 1% of the average of the 
previous three years annual mining operations 
revenue, as reported in Freeport-McMoRan’s 
audited consolidated financial statements, in 
community programs, including in-kind support 
and administration (2016 target of $165 million)
 X
Approximately $142 million was invested in community programs 
across our operations (86% of our target).
Annually 
Recurring
ENVIRONMENT
Incur zero significant environmental events 
(rating of three or higher on Sustainable 
Development Risk Register)
√ 
We did not incur any significant environmental events. We 
did have 23 spills or releases that were reportable to national 
agencies based on applicable regulations.
Annually 
Recurring
Incur zero penalties more than $100,000 
√ 
Our operations did not incur any penalties exceeding $100,000.
Annually 
Recurring
a. Includes oil and gas assets.
b. 
There is no uniform definition of gross human rights violations under international law; however, the United Nations Office of the High Commissioner report: 
The Corporate Responsibility to Respect Human Rights – An Interpretive Guide, provides guidance on identifying such types of violations.
PERFORMANCE TARGETS
WORKFORCE
Successfully recruiting, developing and retaining talented 
employees from diverse backgrounds is key to achieving 
our business objectives. We offer rewarding careers as 
part of a team that, every day and everywhere, embraces 
our core values of Safety, Respect, Integrity, Excellence 
and Commitment. 
LOCAL HIRING AND SKILLS DEVELOPMENT
Hiring talent from regions where we operate incorporates 
local cultures and knowledge into our business systems 
while supporting local economic development. For 
example, at our largest operation, PTFI, located in the 
remote province of Papua, Indonesia, we prioritize the 
hiring of indigenous Papuans. Approximately 99 percent 
of PTFI employees are Indonesian, 36 percent of whom are 
indigenous Papuans (up from 32 percent five years prior).
Our regional technical training programs prepare 
community members for careers in mining, even though 
trainees have no obligation to join our company. The 
Nemangkawi Mining Institute in Papua, Indonesia has 
placed nearly 2,700 apprentices into permanent employee 
and contractor positions at PTFI, 90 percent of whom are 
indigenous Papuans. As PTFI prepares to transition from 
open-pit mining to fully underground mining, Nemangkawi 
is retraining the surface mine workforce for new 
opportunities, including reclamation projects.
Our training partnership program with the San Carlos 
Apache Tribe in Arizona is designed to increase the skills 
and employability of Apache students who generally live in 
communities with high unemployment rates. Students can 
become certified in skills ranging from heavy equipment 
operations to industrial maintenance. Through 2016, over 
870 students have entered the program and approximately 
50 percent have graduated. Many graduates have found 
employment at Freeport-McMoRan as well as with 
companies in other sectors. We proudly employ over 300 
Native Americans, an increase of over 50 percent from five 
years prior. 
Richard Adkerson, Vice Chairman of the Board, President and 
Chief Executive Officer (second from left) and senior management 
members join employees from across the company’s global 
operations on an interactive video conference. 
The San Carlos Training Institute continues to develop skilled 
workers in Arizona by providing reservation-based technical 
training to enhance the employability of Apache students. 
Forty-two graduates are now employed with the company.
CONTRACTORS
Approximately 29,100
	 73%	
Indonesia
	 13%	
North America
	 13%	
South America
	
1%	
Europe/Other
EMPLOYEEES
Approximately 30,000
	 40%	
Indonesia
	 37%	
North America
	 18%	
South America
	
5%	
Europe/Other
At year-end 2016
Workforce data includes oil and gas assets
13
2016 Working Toward Sustainable Development Report
DIVERSITY 
We operate in regions of varying ethnic, religious and 
cultural backgrounds and are generally the largest 
employer in local communities. The diverse backgrounds 
and perspectives within our workforce are an asset. We 
prohibit discrimination and harassment, and our Principles 
of Business Conduct and Human Rights Policy require that 
all employees treat everyone in and around our operations 
with dignity and respect.
Seeking ways to recruit and foster career development 
for women in our company continues to be important, as 
women traditionally have been underrepresented in the 
mining sector. Women serve in key management roles within 
our organization, including our Chief Financial Officer and 
two members of our Board of Directors while an additional 
300 women hold manager-level or higher positions. The 
percentage of women represented in our company varies 
across geographies, from a high of 17 percent in North 
America to a low of five percent in Indonesia. 
Freeport-McMoRan defines discrimination as an act or 
practice of treating a person differently than others, 
causing a negative impact, based on that person belonging 
to a class or category rather than treating the person fairly 
on the basis of individual merit. Discrimination can take a 
number of forms and can be based on various categories, 
such as disability, use of genetic information, age, race, 
ethnicity, religion and gender. In 2016, of the reports 
made through the Freeport-McMoRan Compliance Line, 
29 included allegations of some form of discriminatory 
or harassing conduct. Two of these reports included 
allegations that were substantiated, and disciplinary and 
remedial actions were taken.
LABOR RELATIONS
As of December 31, 2016, our workforce consisted of 
approximately 30,000 employees and 29,100 contractors. 
We work cooperatively with 12 unions in seven locations 
worldwide. Approximately 47 percent of our employee 
population is covered by collective bargaining agreements 
and 34 percent of our employees are covered by 
agreements that will be renegotiated during 2017, including 
the collective labor agreement at PTFI. During 2016, we 
reached a new four-year Collective Bargaining Agreement 
at our El Abra operation in Chile. Our policy is to ensure 
fair treatment and work conditions for all employees, 
including rights to freedom of association and collective 
bargaining. Employees have the right to exercise freedom of 
association at all of our operations.
Due to market conditions, we revised our production plans 
to adjust for the lower commodity prices beginning in 2015. 
These revisions continued into 2016, with layoffs affecting 
both our mining and oil and gas operations in North 
America. We adopted a multi-stage process for determining 
layoffs at our mining operations, including these elements: 
•	
Eligible employees were offered the opportunity to 
participate in early retirement programs
•	
Employees at specific operations were offered a 
voluntary resignation package
•	
Employees were encouraged to transfer to other 
locations to fill openings they were qualified to perform, 
and special relocation assistance was provided in 
these situations
•	
Employees who were laid off were offered severance 
packages and outplacement services including career 
coaching and resume-writing assistance
We seek ways to recruit and foster career development for women 
in our company. Technician Su Yin Chang Ardiles works within the 
electrowinning operation at El Abra. 
Indonesia	
Europe/Other	
South America	
North America	
Company-wide
78%	
66%	
67%	
0%	
47%
PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES UNDER COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS
By Operating Region
WORKFORCE
At year-end 2016
14
Freeport-McMoRan
SAFETY AND HEALTH 
Safety is integral to all Freeport-McMoRan operations; the 
responsibility of every employee is managed by a formal 
structure starting with our Health and Safety Policy. Our 
philosophy of Safe Production is demonstrated by the 
integration of health and safety practices in all aspects of 
our operational activities. Our Board of Directors requires 
comprehensive audits to assure the safety management 
system is effective and resources are applied to achieve the 
company’s policy objectives.
Our Health and Safety Management System is a framework 
from which we manage risks and compliance obligations. As 
of November 2016, the system is certified at the corporate-
level in accordance with the internationally recognized 
OHSAS 18001 standard. The process for attaining our 
corporate group certification in 2016 included internal 
audits at 17 operations with six operations receiving 
independent, third-party audits. Surveillance audits will 
continue to be conducted annually by the internal audit 
team and independent audits will be conducted at select 
operations on a rotating basis. 
No distinction is drawn between contractors and our 
own employees with regard to health and safety 
performance and reporting. The Freeport-McMoRan 
Contractor Safety Manual defines the minimum 
expectations and requirements for contractors working 
at our operations. Site-specific health and safety training 
is conducted with each contractor and tailored to their 
work location, task-specific hazard identification and 
critical control implementation. 
We measure progress toward achieving our objective 
against regularly established benchmarks, including 
measuring company-wide TRIR across our businesses. 
Our TRIR (including contractors) was 0.64 per 200,000 
man-hours worked in 2016, exceeding (missing) our 
target of 0.56. We worked 153.1 million hours in 2016 
compared to 200.5 million hours in the prior year, and 
we recorded a total of 492 reportable injuries in 2016 
compared to 564 in 2015. 
FATALITY PREVENTION
During the year, we continued to work with peers within 
our sector, as well as external experts to further improve 
our Fatality Prevention Program, specifically, the Fatal 
Risk Management (FRM) program element. It consists of 
a suite of tools to assist supervisors in planning for, and 
communicating to the broader workforce, the management 
requirements associated with the potentially fatal risks 
of daily activities. Included are tools to verify, at the work 
task location, that critical controls are fully understood and 
properly implemented. This includes utilizing basic icons 
for visualizing potentially fatal risks and critical control 
checklists for in-field verifications. Personnel at several 
Freeport-McMoRan operations were directly involved in 
developing the FRM, including a small pilot group at PTFI. 
Direct operational involvement in the development not 
only enhances the program but also provides a sense of 
ownership in the processes. 
In 2016, we created a Critical Control Improvement Team 
comprised of multiple engineering disciplines. The effort is 
focused on the quality and reliability of engineered controls 
and the reduction in risks associated with specific tasks. 
The team consists of multi-disciplinary engineers from 
our global operations whom are specifically dedicated 
to facilitate the identification, development and sharing 
Historical Mine Opening Safety Program (HMOSP) team members 
locate and close inactive historic mine openings (shafts and adits) 
on and near company properties for the safety of employees and 
recreational land users. Despite traversing rugged terrain every 
day, the HMOSP team has completed over 2,100 days without a 
reportable safety incident.  Since 2008, 1,380 historical mine 
openings have been closed.
Includes oil and gas assets except 2012
TRIR = [(Fatalities + Lost Time Incidents + Restricted Duty Incidents + Medical Treatment) x 200,000] / Total Hours Worked 
	
2012	
2013	
2014	
2015	
2016
Workplace Fatalities	
6	
35	
7	
3	
6
Total Recordable Incident Rate	
0.58	
0.74	
0.56	
0.56	
0.64
Occupational Illness Cases 	
25	
41	
46	
43	
26
SAFETY AND HEALTH SUMMARY DATA
Including Contractors
15
2016 Working Toward Sustainable Development Report
of engineered critical controls. The team has recently 
evaluated in detail, risks associated with safe access 
for working at heights, fly metal hazards associated with 
stacker operations and elimination of human pinch points. 
The team’s success is measured by improved safety 
performance as demonstrated by the reduction in HEHI 
(high energy high impact) events at our operations. 
The reviews and updates of Global Significant Risk Policies 
continue with the support of operations, maintenance 
and safety experts throughout the company. A new 
Material Handling Conveyance Management Policy was 
developed to establish best practices for safely operating 
and maintaining material handling systems. In addition, 
independent experts assisted the company with the 
development of an Electrowinning(EW)/Electrorefining(ER) 
Electrical Safety Policy. 
In 2016, operations in North America developed Safe 
Production plans, which included leading metrics. Proactive 
metrics identified and implemented include critical control 
improvements, auditing of critical controls, effective use of 
risk registers, and reduction of high risk tasks performed.
PTFI is developing and utilizing improved critical controls including 
water cannons to effectively move large boulders that may obstruct 
ore draw points while the operator maintains a safe distance.
FATAL RISK MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
Vehicle Collision or Rollover
Vehicle Impact on Person
Fall from heights
Entanglement and Crushing
Uncontrolled Release of Energy
Lifting Operations
Fire
Contact with Electricity
Falling Objects
Exposure to Hazardous Substances
Confined Spaces
Blasting
Drowning
Ground Failure
Rail Collision
Rail Impact on person
Contact with Molten Material
Underground Rock fall
Underground Hazardous Atmosphere
Underground Inrush
Personnel Hoisting
Aircraft Operation
2016 WORKPLACE FATALITIES
Including Contractors
OPERATION
EVENT DESCRIPTION
PTFI
Papua, Indonesia
A lineman received a fatal electrical shock while working on a twin circuit 230kV Transmission Line. 
A mill electrician was troubleshooting maintenance work on power cables in an overhead cable tray when the cable 
tray collapsed.
A warehouse employee was walking through the warehouse yard when he walked in front of and was fatally struck 
by a moving 988H wheel loader forklift.
An operational lead hand and a dozer operator were moving a dozer across a catch bank, when the lead hand began 
operating the dozer and the dozer operator rode unsecured on the platform outside of the cabin. As the dozer moved, 
the crest of the narrow catch bank gave away and the dozer fell, fatally injuring the dozer operator. 
FM Americas
Safford, Arizona, USA
An employee was found unresponsive leaning against a return line outside of the EW tankhouse. The cause of death 
was determined to be probable electrocution. 
FM Americas
El Abra, Calama, Chile
A contract locomotive consisting of two locomotive engines and seven flatbed cars loaded with copper cathode 
entered the acid unloading terminal without notice or approval at a high rate of speed. It collided with a line of ten 
parked acid tanker cars, fatally injuring one employee.
SAFETY AND HEALTH
16
Freeport-McMoRan
17
2016 Working Toward Sustainable Development Report
BUSINESS ETHICS
We are committed to the highest level of ethical and legal 
conduct. The Freeport-McMoRan Principles of Business 
Conduct (PBC) are a commitment to integrity and define 
the expected behavior of all employees and our board. We 
conduct comprehensive training on our PBC, including 
annual certification of management-level employees 
(approximately 97 percent were trained in 2016). This 
process consisted of computer-based training, as well as a 
signed certification that the employee understands the PBC 
and is not aware of cases of non-compliance. Beginning in 
2017, the PBC training is provided annually to all employees.
ANTI-CORRUPTION
Corruption is sometimes widespread in local government 
systems and cultures near our operations. We do not 
tolerate the offering or payment of bribes, kickbacks or 
other similar payments to any person or organization 
or government official to secure 
advantages for our business. 
Likewise, we do not accept any of 
these payments. Our Anti-Corruption 
Policy and Guidelines require 
compliance with the U.S. Foreign 
Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (FCPA) 
and other relevant anticorruption 
laws, including local laws.
The company is deploying a new anti-
corruption online training module in 
2017. The training is mandatory for 
annual completion by select groups 
of employees utilizing a risk-based 
approach. For example, senior-level 
employees who may interact with 
government officials are required 
to complete the training. The online 
training does not replace our existing 
classroom training programs; rather, it has been developed 
to supplement existing 
systems and extend the reach of the company’s 
overall compliance efforts. 
During 2016, we held in-person classroom training at our 
Phoenix corporate offices, Cerro Verde, Atlantic Copper, 
PTFI and TFM. Training was also conducted for support 
functions, including the Accounting, Communications, 
Environmental Services, Global Supply Chain, Human 
Resources, Legal, and Sales and Marketing departments 
along with senior management responsible for approval 
procedures and internal controls. In addition, classes were 
held for contractors at PTFI. 
In recognition of the potential legal liability that could result 
from actions of our business partners under the FCPA and 
other laws, the company has implemented its online due 
diligence platform, the Freeport Compliance eXchange 
(FCeX). FCeX is a survey-based software platform designed 
to assess risk in the areas of anti-corruption, international 
trade and human rights. FCeX has significantly enhanced 
the company’s ability to identify, assess and mitigate 
compliance risks.
Annually, Freeport-McMoRan performs company-wide 
audits with the assistance of our internal audit firm to 
assess risk and plan for the following year’s audit strategy. 
Formal fraud risk assessments have been implemented at 
Atlantic Copper, corporate offices and PTFI, and mapped 
with business controls, which are tested and reviewed 
annually. The fraud risk assessments consist of more 
than 100 risk scenarios spanning across more than 
15 process areas, such as Asset 
Management, Purchasing, Payables 
and Financial Reporting. All of these 
risk assessments include corruption 
as a risk factor. 
INFORMATION AND REPORTING 
Among other reporting mechanisms, 
Freeport-McMoRan maintains a 
Compliance Line to provide guidance 
and assistance to workforce 
members with any questions or 
concerns related to our PBC, policies 
or procedures. To encourage our 
workforce to raise any potential 
violations of business conduct, we 
also provide anonymous reporting 
through our compliance system. 
Spain, which prohibits anonymous reporting in accordance
with Spain’s Data Protection Act (Organic Law 15/1999 
on the Protection of Personal Data), is an exception. 
During 2016, 220 reports were made through the 
Freeport-McMoRan Compliance Line relating to 
various topics, including employee workplace conduct; 
environment, health and safety; protecting company assets; 
and conflicts of interest. All reports are investigated and, 
if substantiated, appropriate disciplinary action is taken 
including possible termination of employment. 
TRANSPARENCY OF GOVERNMENT PAYMENTS
Freeport-McMoRan has endorsed and committed to support 
the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) since 
2008. EITI is a global standard to promote transparent 
and accountable management of natural resources. The 
initiative is a commitment by governments to disclose 
revenues received, and by oil, 
gas and mining companies 
to disclose natural resource 
payments to governments in an annual EITI report. In 
implementing countries, the initiative is led by governments, 
extractives companies and civil society working together in 
a multi-stakeholder group forum.
Today, Freeport-McMoRan maintains significant mining 
operations in Indonesia, Peru and the United States, all EITI 
implementing countries. Senior-level Freeport-McMoRan 
employees are representatives on these countries’ 
multi-stakeholder groups or are actively supporting the 
in-country processes. A company executive also serves on 
the EITI International Board of Directors. To help support 
a successful seventh EITI Global Conference in Lima, 
Peru in February 2016, the company provided a financial 
sponsorship and multiple employees from across our global 
operations attended as delegates. 
The payments our company makes to host governments 
via taxes, royalties and other obligations are a significant 
contribution to national, regional and local development. 
We believe that increased transparency of natural 
resource revenues and payments promotes better 
governance and accountability regarding the distribution 
of natural resource revenues. In addition to our country-
level EITI commitments, our practice is to report annual 
cash payments to governments, including sub-national 
payments, in all countries where we conduct business, as 
presented below.
Freeport-McMoRan’s Cerro Verde operation was one of six winners 
of the U.S. Department of State’s Bureau of Economic and Business 
Affairs 2016 Secretary of State’s Awards for Corporate Excellence 
in Transparent Operations.
President and Chief Operating Officer – Americas, Red Conger, 
addresses delegates at the EITI 7th Global Conference in Lima, 
Peru. Freeport-McMoRan’s Cerro Verde operation has participated 
in Peru’s EITI process since the country became a member in 2007. 
CASH PAYMENTS TO GOVERNMENTSa
BUSINESS ETHICS
For the year ended	
U.S.	
Chile	
Peru	
Indonesia	
DRC	
Other	
Total
December 31, 2016 ($ millions)	
	
	
	
	
	
Countriesb

Corporate Income Taxes, Net of Refunds	
$ (163  	
$ 11  	
$    16  	
$    60  	
$    33  	
$ 
 
12  	
$    (31
Withholding Taxes on Foreign Dividends 	
-	
9	
-	
-	
-	
-	
9
Employee Payroll Taxesc	
372	
9	
31	
37	
37	
27	
513
Royalties and Net Severance Taxes 	
156	
4	
14	
116	
21	
-	
311
Property Taxes 	
163	
-	
-	
31	
-	
2	
196
Other Taxes and Fees 	
51	
8	
77	
191	
113	
(10	
430
Total 	
$ 579  	
$ 41  	
$138  	
$435  	
$204  	
$31  	
$1,428  
a. 
This schedule reflects a voluntary effort by Freeport-McMoRan to capture its cash payments to governments (net of refunds). Schedule includes 
sub-national payments.
b. 
Represents cash payments to governments by Freeport-McMoRan’s other business groups that are located outside of the countries where 
Freeport-McMoRan conducts its primary operations.
c. Includes payroll taxes collected on behalf of employees and paid to governments.
  )
  )
  )
18
Freeport-McMoRan
19
2016 Working Toward Sustainable Development Report
HUMAN RIGHTS 
Respect for human rights is a long-standing commitment 
of our company. Our Human Rights Policy, first established 
in the late 1990s and most recently updated in 2015, 
requires us to conduct business in a manner consistent 
with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and to align 
our human rights due diligence practices with the United 
Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights 
(UN Guiding Principles).
We promote human rights awareness through engagement 
with host governments and local communities, as well 
as by providing training to employees and contractors. 
We protect the confidentiality of anyone who reports 
suspected violations. Our site-specific human rights 
programs and systems are consistent with our corporate 
Human Rights Policy, in-country laws and regulations, and 
the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights 
(Voluntary Principles). Our human rights compliance officers 
oversee compliance and training, as well as grievance 
mechanisms for reporting, documenting and investigating 
allegations that are reported in our areas of operation. 
In 2016, we continued to advance integration of the UN 
Guiding Principles into our business. Activities included:
•	
Coordination between corporate resources and 
operational teams to review sustainable development 
risk registers from a human rights perspective 
and to identify related risks, beyond traditional 
security matters
•	
Monitoring implementation of Action Plans that were 
developed to investigate, mitigate and/or remedy 
adverse human rights impacts (both actual and 
potential) identified in the 2015 TFM Human Rights 
Impact Assessment (TFM HRIA) via the site’s risk 
register process
•	
Initiating a process to update Freeport Compliance 
eXchange (FCeX), our online supplier due diligence 
platform, to include additional human rights topics
Our multi-sector industry dialogue on human rights 
continued through the Business for Social Responsibility 
human rights working group and Sustainability 50, an 
executive-level peer to peer sharing forum. In addition, 
our team regularly engages with the financial community, 
customers, civil society and value chain partners to discuss 
and receive feedback on our human rights program, in 
particular, overall progress on implementation of UN 
Guiding Principles and associated reporting.
PLANNING THE CERRO VERDE HUMAN RIGHTS 
IMPACT ASSESSMENT 
Preliminary work on a site-level HRIA for our Cerro Verde 
operation in Peru (Cerro Verde HRIA) was initiated in 2016. 
The “dashboard” of human rights topics to be addressed will 
build on that used for the Corporate and TFM HRIAs - but 
with additional emphasis on the local/domestic value chain. 
This is in response to one of the lessons learned from the 
TFM HRIA, namely the need for further transparency around 
conditions in the local/domestic supply chain.
Topics reflected in the dashboard have been mapped against recognized international human rights 
HUMAN RIGHTS IMPACT ASSESSMENT SCOPE OR “DASHBOARD”
EMPLOYEES
VALUE CHAIN
COMMUNITY
ENVIRONMENT
THIRD PARTIES
Working conditions
Working conditions
Standards of living / 
quality of life
Pollution
Conduct of private 
security forces
Safe and healthy 
working conditions
Safe and healthy 
working conditions
Community health 
and safety
Water security
Conduct of government 
security forces
Discrimination
Discrimination
Economic activity / 
livelihoods
Waste and hazardous 
materials management
Contribution to conflict
Freedom of association and 
collective bargaining
Freedom of association and 
collective bargaining
Minorities and 
indigenous peoples
Increased exposure to 
natural hazards
Presence of artisanal / 
small-scale miners
Child labor
Child labor
Displacement / resettlement
Corruption
Privacy
Privacy
Cultural heritage
NGOs and civil 
society groups
Forced and 
compulsory labor
Forced and 
compulsory labor
Children's rights, including 
access to education
Judicial system 
(access to remedy)
20
Freeport-McMoRan
 
Topics reflected in the dashboard have been mapped 
against recognized international human rights to ensure 
a comprehensive, rights-driven approach while being 
organized in a way that is relevant to our mining related 
activities. Certain dashboard topics (like artisanal mining 
and indigenous peoples) are not applicable at every 
operating location. 
Preliminary work on the Cerro Verde HRIA included an initial 
desk-based assessment of human rights risks based on 
Verisk Maplecroft’s proprietary Human Rights Risk Indices 
and Cerro Verde’s operational sustainable development risk 
register, media and NGO reports, as well as public input into a 
recent EISA process. A HRIA Self-Assessment Questionnaire 
was also completed at both a corporate and site level.
We plan to complete the Cerro Verde HRIA in 2017. Like the 
TFM HRIA, the Cerro Verde HRIA will include extensive on-
the-ground engagement with the workforce, the community 
and third parties both in and around Cerro Verde as well as 
in the broader Arequipa region. This will help us:
•	
Verify the initial desk-based assessment of potential 
human rights risks and impacts
•	
Ensure less “visible” risks and impacts are captured 
(e.g. where rights holders are unable or unwilling 
to utilize Cerro Verde’s established grievance 
mechanisms or to raise issues with third parties)
•	
Gain insight into broader human rights dynamics that 
may collectively affect local rights holders but not to 
a degree that any one individual or group has been 
compelled to raise a specific complaint
•	
Understand the specific impacts associated with 
identifiable vulnerable groups, such as women, 
children, minority groups and the very poor
Interviewees will be offered anonymity before engagement. 
Interviews will be conducted by a third party to encourage 
frank, transparent and constructive discussions. The Cerro 
Verde HRIA will apply the “but for” test in relation to the 
identification and assessment of human rights impacts 
caused by, contributed to or linked to Cerro Verde. Alleged 
impacts will be included in the assessment even if there 
is uncertainty around the supporting facts behind them 
and/or the causative relationship to Cerro Verde. 
Action plans to address any risks and impacts will be 
embedded within Cerro Verde’s sustainable development 
risk register process. These plans will support continuous 
improvement of existing systems and processes, and 
(where necessary) will establish new measures to 
investigate, avoid, mitigate and/or remedy identified human 
rights risks and impacts. 
Like the TFM HRIA, the Cerro Verde HRIA will include a 
parallel exercise to identify the degree to which Cerro Verde 
positively maintains and/or advances human rights within 
its area of influence. While understanding that positive 
human rights impacts cannot offset negative impacts, this 
exercise will provide a more comprehensive view of our 
overall human rights performance. Lessons learned from 
the Cerro Verde HRIA will further shape our global human 
rights strategy as well as site-level HRIA work at other 
higher risk operations over time. 
For more detailed information, please refer to the Human 
Rights section on our website.
SECURITY
The Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights 
serve as guidelines for our security and human rights 
programs, interactions with host government police and 
military personnel, and 
with private security 
contractors. We have 
remained active in the Voluntary Principles Initiative since 
it was first established in 2000 and are currently serving 
a two-year term on the Voluntary Principles Initiative 
Steering Committee and Voluntary Principles Association 
Board of Directors. Our 2016 Report includes country 
implementation details for Indonesia, Peru, and the DRC as 
these countries represented our higher risk environments 
in terms of security and human rights.
HUMAN RIGHTS
PTFI’s Human Rights Compliance Officer conducts a training 
session on the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights 
for host government security personnel prior to their deployment 
to the project area.
COMMUNITIES
Mining operations inevitably create economic, social and 
environmental impacts on local communities. Some of these 
impacts may include changes to land use and population 
influx, while others include economic opportunities and 
development in the areas of infrastructure, health and 
education. We engage with local stakeholders throughout 
project lifecycles to build the relationships and trust needed 
to operate and grow our business. Our Community Policy 
requires collaboration with communities to minimize and 
mitigate unavoidable adverse impacts and to maximize 
opportunities to deliver value from our operations.
Transparent and consistent engagement ensures 
communities have input into our development projects and 
ongoing operations, promotes understanding of our business, 
and ultimately reduces risk to our plans. Communication 
with local stakeholders takes place via a number of 
channels, such as formally through open houses linked to 
regulatory processes, informally through interactions with 
our community development representatives in the field, 
or through community partnership panels and community 
investment funds or foundations. 
COMMUNITY INVESTMENT
Freeport-McMoRan’s community investment strategy 
addresses high-priority needs and facilitates local 
capacity building with the aim of sustaining communities 
post-closure. Our social investment criteria are a set of 
guidelines designed to ensure that resources are used to 
decrease community dependencies on our operations 
and promote sustainable futures. Many of our community 
investment programs align with SDG objectives or help 
mitigate impediments to their realization. 
In addition to direct community investment from operations 
and the corporate Freeport-McMoRan Foundation, we have 
established community trust funds or social funds in Chile, 
Indonesia, Peru and the U.S. These funds are managed 
by community members who determine the allocation of 
resources to programs that focus on education, health, 
economic development and the environment. 
In both North America and South America, we increased 
our efforts and investments in local capacity-building 
through activities including specific training for current 
2016 COMMUNITY INVESTMENT
$142 million
	 24%	

Community 
Trust Funds
	 19%	

Economic 
Development and 
Infrastructure
	 15%	

Education and 
Training
	 15%	
Other*
	 14%	

Administration
	 13%	

Safety, Health and 
Environment
* 
Includes arts, culture, resettlement, mitigation, stakeholder engagement 
and employee programs such as Matching Gifts and United Way
COMMUNITY INVESTMENT                 	
    ADVANCING SDGs
Our social investments contribute positively 
to many of the United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) while also 
mitigating impacts that may otherwise 
impede their realization. We are evaluating 
areas where we can have the most impact in 
advancing the SDGs.

Community Trust Funds

Economic Development and Infrastructure

Education and Training
Safety, Health and Environment
Other (see chart footnote above)
21
2016 Working Toward Sustainable Development Report
22
Freeport-McMoRan
and upcoming local leaders. In each of our operating 
communities in the U.S., we implemented another phase 
of our overall capacity development work with an initiative 
called “Leadership for Sustainable Communities”, which 
aims to guide local civic leaders through a process 
designed to develop each community’s ability to affect 
action that creates a sustainable future, especially post 
mining. The first phase of the program, which will conclude 
in 2017, has provided training for more than 120 current and 
future leaders.
During 2016, we continued to support improvement in 
science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) 
education through teacher development and retention 
initiatives. Through our STEM Innovation Grant Program, 
we awarded funds to 18 innovative projects submitted by 
teachers across 17 schools near our operations.  These 
grants provide resources not otherwise available for 
enhanced STEM learning. We also completed year two 
of a three-year professional development initiative for 
elementary and middle school math teachers in rural school 
districts.  The initiative aims to increase their content 
knowledge and confidence in teaching math in order to 
improve students’ ability to master core mathematical 
concepts by the eighth grade. Early results indicate better 
student math performance and preparedness. Our focus on 
STEM is aligned with the long-term technical requirements 
of our business. We continued our investment in the 
workforce pipeline supporting higher education programs 
that trained students in the trades, as well as four-year 
degree programs related to our business needs.
We also have advanced our investments in women’s 
economic empowerment programs, including  
“DreamBuilder: The Women’s Business Creator,” an online 
entrepreneurship skills training program that has now 
reached just over 17,000 women in Chile, Peru and the 
U.S. In 2016, via our partnership with Thunderbird School 
of Global Management and a network of 82 dedicated 
partners,  we were able to increase the graduation rate 
to 11 percent, outpacing the (online learning) industry 
average of 4 percent for open enrollment courses. 
Evaluation of graduates a year or more after graduation 
indicated that 93 percent increased business sales, 46 
percent hired additional employees and 76 percent paid 
themselves a salary versus only 22 percent who did so 
before participating in the program. As we work to increase 
the number of graduates, we are considering using a third 
party impact assessment to determine the program’s 
impact on women, their families and the revenue generated 
for community-level development. This program is another 
example of how we are collaborating to advance the SDGs, 
particularly SDGs 4, 5 and 8.
We have committed to invest $5 million to promote women’s 
economic empowerment and address violence against 
women in Chile, Peru and Indonesia by 2021 as part of 
a “Girls, Women & the Global Goals” coalition of multi-
sectoral partners convened by No Ceilings, Vital Voices, 
and WEConnect International. The coalition is working 
collectively to advance the fifth SDG goal of gender 
equality, particularly focused on promoting women’s 
economic participation; addressing violence against girls 
and women; and advancing women’s leadership in the 
private and public sectors. 
Local women celebrate graduation from a literacy program 
supported by the TFM Social Community Fund and a local NGO 
partner. Initially planned for 300 participants, the program that 
teaches reading, writing, basic math and financial savings now 
reaches over 700 women and girls.
COMMUNITIES
PTFI and the Freeport Partnership Fund for Community Development 
support the Taruna Papua School and Dormitory near Timika. The 
fund also supports a comprehensive series of health and educational 
programs, skills training and small business development initiatives 
for indigenous Papuans.
23
2016 Working Toward Sustainable Development Report
In the DRC, the TFM Social Community Fund continued to 
support the literacy and life skills program for women and 
girls launched in 2015, which provided training on reading, 
writing, basic math, household savings, and other topics 
related to human rights, health and hygiene to more than 
700 women and girls in 12 villages.
In 2016, PTFI signed a multi-year agreement with Bank 
Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) to increase Papuan entrepreneurs’ 
access to financial capital in order to grow their small 
businesses. BRI will administer the micro-loans and PTFI will 
underwrite the loans and connect Papuan entrepreneurs 
from its Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprise Development 
(MSME) program to the bank. Since 2004, PTFI has made 
approximately $3.5 million in loans to Papuan entrepreneurs 
through its revolving fund (YBUM: Yayasan Bina Utama 
Mandiri). This new partnership between PTFI and BRI will 
transition borrowers from YBUM to BRI and, as a result, 
increase the professional support and access to capital for 
over 160 Papuan entrepreneurs.
Through the Freeport Partnership Fund for Community 
Development, PTFI has committed to provide one percent 
of its annual revenue for the development of the indigenous 
Papuan community. PTFI’s contributions to the Partnership 
Fund were approximately $33 million in 2016 and over $690 
million since its inception in 1996. 
Over the last few years, PTFI’s annual contribution to the 
Partnership Fund has decreased because of declining 
company revenues that have resulted from factors such 
as declining commodity prices, export permit limitations, 
and labor productivity issues at PTFI. In 2016, in response 
to these trends, PTFI and LPMAK signed an agreement 
that extends the funding arrangement between the two 
organizations until December 2018 and outlines how the two 
organizations will strengthen the management and positive 
impact of the Partnership Fund. 
GRIEVANCE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
Our operations utilize a community grievance management 
system for recording, processing and responding to local 
concerns. Grievances may be received by Community 
Liaison Officers in the field, through engagement at 
established company/community forums, via physical drop 
boxes, or via local hotlines. Site-level Community Grievance 
Officers ensure community grievances are handled in a 
timely and transparent manner. Our site-level community 
grievance mechanisms complement the global, publically 
available anonymous reporting options associated with our 
Principles of Business Conduct and reflect our commitment 
to remedying impacts we cause or contribute to. They 
also help us manage and reduce community and company 
risks by effectively resolving issues before they escalate 
into larger conflicts. Use of our community grievance 
mechanism does not preclude access to judicial or other 
non-judicial grievance mechanisms. 
In addition to grievances discussed in the photo caption 
above, 106 community grievances were recorded at our 
global operations (excluding TFM) during 2016. 
2016 GRIEVANCES 
By Category
	 43%	

Community Benefits
	 17%	

Land Rights
	 16%	

Environment
	
9%	

Health & Safety
	
9%	

Other
	
6%	

Property Damage
Utilizing its formal grievance system, Cerro Verde has successfully worked with community members, including within the Uchumayo District 
(photo background), to address 146 complaints regarding noise and vibrations from pumping stations (photo center). The stations are an integral 
component of the Arequipa Region’s first ever wastewater treatment system which is designed to treat 90 percent of Arequipa’s domestic and 
industrial wastewater. Grievance remedies ranged from home relocations to replacement of windows.
24
Freeport-McMoRan
Regardless of the types and credibility of these allegations, 
all cases reported were documented, reviewed and closed, 
or are currently being processed.
In 2017, we are embarking on a project to review our 
global grievance management standard operating 
procedure against the UN Guiding Principles effectiveness 
criteria for non-judicial grievance mechanisms. Before 
finalization, the procedure will be reviewed with a set of 
community stakeholders to ensure effectiveness from 
their perspective. This will include surveying community 
stakeholders to determine if local mechanisms are well 
known, understood and fit for purpose based on the 
local context. 
INDIGENOUS PEOPLES
Our community engagement and local investment 
objectives are significantly focused on indigenous 
peoples in Papua, Indonesia; Native Americans in the 
United States; and the communities of Alto Loa in Chile 
(Chile’s First People). Through community engagement, 
cultural promotion and preservation projects, as well as 
training and development programs, we seek to address 
the needs, cultures and customs of indigenous peoples 
near our operations. Engaging with groups focused 
on indigenous peoples’ rights at the local, national 
and international levels also is important for sharing of 
information about approaches to indigenous peoples’ 
topics in varying geographies.
PTFI has engaged with indigenous Papuan tribes for 
decades, including through multiple formal agreements to 
promote workforce skills training, health, education and 
basic infrastructure development. The desire of indigenous 
Papuans to preserve cultural heritage is shared by PTFI and 
continuously demonstrated through support for cultural 
festivals and books documenting the social uniqueness of 
the Amungme and Kamoro tribes. 
In 2016, PTFI continued to work with Kamoro community 
members to review and mitigate the impacts of the West 
Levee Extension project via the water transportation 
program. The purpose of the West Levee Extension 
project is to contain the projected increase in tailings as 
PTFI transitions from an open pit to a fully underground 
operation. The extension project temporarily closed 
the Yamaima channel, which local communities have 
historically accessed. Several years ago, PTFI conducted a 
study on an alternative community transportation access 
and alternative economic activities for the impacted 
communities in Ayuka and Tipuka. As a result of the study 
and conversations with the impacted communities, PTFI 
excavated an alternative channel to mitigate the impact of 
the closure of the Yamaima channel. In addition, the boat 
service that PTFI had launched in 2014 was not optimally 
used by the community. PTFI consulted with the village 
members and identified an option to use smaller-sized 
fiberglass boats, re-route the service, and revise the 
schedule of boat service. As a result of this community 
feedback, PTFI is now operating passenger boats to provide 
regular water transportation services between coastal 
villages to the east of the tailings deposition area and 
the healthcare, education and economic trade facilities 
available in the Timika region to the west. In addition, 
new boat docks, jetties, and bus services to supplement 
the water transportation services were constructed and 
launched in 2016.
COMMUNITIES
Miami, Arizona operations hosts approximately 30 members of 
the National Tribal Mining Workgroup, an EPA-funded program 
designed to provide Native American tribes with resources to 
learn about the mining industry. Miami is unique in that it includes 
an open pit mine, SX/EW facilities, a smelter and copper rod plant, 
as well as extensive reclamation activities.
New boat docks supplement the water transportation services 
provided to Kamoro community members whose estuary transport 
routes are impacted by sedimentation associated with PTFI’s 
controlled riverine tailings management system.
25
2016 Working Toward Sustainable Development Report
In November 2016, we experienced breakage of a water 
pipeline for our El Abra mining operation that passes 
through the Indigenous community of Taira.  Water from the 
pipeline entered the Loa River on which the community of 
Taira depends for livelihoods. The community complained 
that resulting turbidity in the river created sedimentation 
and clogged its irrigation pipelines, and the salinity of water 
potentially impacted pastureland. Environmental analysis 
conducted by the company revealed no significant changes 
in salinity within the Loa River after the pipeline breakage. 
El Abra staff conducted two field visits with the community 
after the incident to further analyze the circumstances. 
The company provided 1,000 bundles of grass to the 
community for animal feed to mitigate any potential damage 
to pastureland. El Abra has begun a process to analyze the 
feasibility of sedimentation impacting irrigation pipes and 
the implementation of further preventive measures.
El Abra continued robust engagement with 10 indigenous 
communities and worked cooperatively to establish 
Community Development Agreements, including funding 
for projects made available through the Freeport-McMoRan 
Chile Foundation, that meet local needs. One of the most 
significant investments was in the Don Bosco Technical 
School, which opened to 600 students in 2016, allowing 
them to receive quality training needed to facilitate future 
employability. We further implemented or continued 
formalized engagement, assessment and management 
systems to address potential social impacts and community 
development topics within the corridor surrounding the 
operation where we have a potential expansion opportunity. 
In the U.S., we continued our partnerships with Native 
American Tribes including the Hualapai Tribe, the San 
Carlos Apache Tribe, the Tohono O’odham Nation, and the 
White Mountain Apache Tribe. These partnership Tribes 
have maintained their focus on education as a top priority 
for their community members; the company continued its 
Native American Scholarship program, awarding 39 college 
scholarships in 2016 to Tribal Members who are enrolled 
Members of our partnership Tribes. In addition, support to 
Arizona State University helped address Native American 
student retention rates and related higher education 
efforts. The development of future youth leaders was the 
focus of an ongoing partnership with the United National 
Indian Tribal Youth (UNITY) organization. 
We continue to provide grants to our Tribal partners 
and non-profit organizations that seek to service our 
partnership Tribes through our Native American Partnership 
Fund and the Native American Contributions Activities 
Fund. Nine programs were awarded funding through our 
Native American Partnership Fund including the GuVo Youth 
summer enrichment program, the Himdag Ki: Exhibition 
Space Renovation project and an Elder Empowerment 
program. Our support for these Native American initiatives 
exceeded $2.7 million in 2016.
For more information on our community programs, please 
visit freeportinmycommunity.com
El Abra operations received the 2016 National Environmental Award 
from the Recyclápolis Foundation for its part in a project that built 
Chile’s first community hybrid power plant, delivering electricity 
and heat to 150 families in the indigenous community of Ollagüe.
El Abra and the indigenous community of Ollagüe signed a 
collaborative environmental protection agreement to jointly 
monitor the Salar de Ascotán watershed.
ENVIRONMENT
The Freeport-McMoRan Environmental Policy is based on 
our objective to be compliant with laws and regulations 
and to minimize environmental impacts using risk 
management strategies based on valid data and sound 
science. It requires that we review and take account of the 
environmental effects of each activity, whether exploration, 
mining or processing; and that we plan and conduct the 
design, development, operation and closure of each facility 
in a manner that optimizes the economic use of resources 
while reducing adverse environmental effects.
All of our mining and mineral processing operations 
maintain Environmental Management Systems (EMS) 
certified to ISO 14001, which are independently audited 
on an annual basis. As part of the EMS, employees and 
contractors are trained on environmental awareness in 
subject areas including chemical management, waste 
management, and spill prevention and response. In addition 
to job-specific training, workforce members receive annual 
environmental refresher training. 
In December 2016, our Molybdenum Processing Facility in 
Rotterdam, Netherlands was the first site in our portfolio 
to secure Environmental Management System (EMS) 
certification under the new ISO 14,001:2015 standard. Our 
remaining operations will have until September 2018 to 
certify under that standard. 
During 2016, we completed internal environmental audits 
at nine operations, and our facilities are routinely inspected 
by regulatory agencies. Since 1996, an independent 
environmental audit has been conducted at PTFI every 
three years, and an executive summary and responses to 
the 2014 audit recommendations are posted on our website. 
All operations have corrective action programs associated 
with the overarching EMS.
When operations have received a notice of an 
environmental violation from a regulatory agency such 
as shown in the table below, the citations typically have 
involved brief and minor exceedances of permit conditions 
or other recordkeeping violations which have no or 
minimal environmental impact. Notices of violation have 
also followed spills or releases related to tailings dust or 
impacted water. When our operations have been assessed 
penalties, they typically are individually below $100,000.
ENERGY MANAGEMENT
Our copper mining operations require significant energy 
inputs, principally diesel, purchased power, coal and natural 
gas, most of which is obtained from third parties under 
long-term contracts. Energy represented approximately 20 
percent of our copper mine site operating costs during 2016.
Our worldwide total greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, 
measured as carbon dioxide equivalent emissions, were 
approximately 10.4 million metric tons divided between 
direct (52 percent) and indirect (48 percent) emissions for 
2016. Indirect emissions are primarily those emitted by our 
electricity providers. In 2016, approximately 63 percent 
of our purchased power was from low carbon sources, 
including natural gas and renewable energy.
The HRC 3000 at Morenci is the largest high pressure roll crusher 
in the world. It is estimated to consume 14 percent less power per 
ton than traditional HPRC’s. High pressure roll crusher technology 
is being deployed as a highly energy efficient means of crushing 
ore compared to traditional mill circuits.
* Year-over-year increase driven by PTFI (including three cases of pipeline sabotage)
	
2012	
2013	
2014	
2015	
2016
Reportable spills or releases of hazardous or toxic chemicals	
12	
16	
14	
13	
23*
Notices of Violations related to permit exceedances, spills, 
releases or other compliance matters	
4	
10	
11	
2	
5
Environmental Penalties	
$47,369	
$80,362	
$123,745	
$43,000	
$0
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE INDICATORS
26
Freeport-McMoRan
Our direct emissions are primarily from fuel combustion in 
haul trucks, followed by the combustion of fuels to provide 
energy for roasting, smelting and other processes. The 
majority of our mining activity occurs in open pits. As an 
open pit matures, haul road length increases and haul 
trucks are required to move ore additional distances to the 
processing facility. When market conditions necessitate the 
mining and processing of lower grade ore, haul trucks must 
move more material per pound of processed metal.
Crushing, milling, pumping and electrowinning are the 
most significant power-consuming processes at our 
facilities. We have achieved significant improvements 
in energy efficiency with our new processing facilities, 
including new mills at Morenci and Cerro Verde. The Cerro 
Verde concentrator expansion, for example, includes a 
High Pressure Grinding Roll circuit that is approximately 
40 percent more energy efficient than a traditional Semi-
Autogenous Grinding mill circuit. We continue to invest 
annually in energy-related research and development 
through our technology center, technical services and 
operational improvement groups. We provide mining-
related property for solar power generation.
Our mining operations are currently not located in 
jurisdictions where there is a direct cost associated with our 
GHG emissions. As countries implement programs to meet 
objectives stemming from the COP 21 agreement, from 
a medium to long-term perspective we may experience 
increased costs relating to changes in energy sources for, 
and GHG emissions from, our mining operations. In addition, 
the cost of electricity and other inputs that we purchase 
may increase if our suppliers incur increased costs from 
the regulation of their GHG emissions. We have modeled a 
hypothetical carbon tax of $50 per metric ton on our GHG 
emissions (both Scope I and II) associated with our global 
copper mines. The associated hypothetical increase in 
operating costs would not necessitate operating plan 
Our direct GHG emissions are primarily from fuel combustion in 
haul trucks.
Hundreds of used oil samples are analyzed daily at the company’s 
Oil Analysis Lab and Reliability Center. Technicians prepare 
samples for an analytical ferrograph instrument that separates 
wear and contaminant particles from fluid samples that can help 
mechanics maintain high-efficiency machinery.
2016 TOTAL (SCOPE I) CARBON DIOXIDE 
EQUIVALENT EMISSIONS
By Fuel Type
	 51%	
Liquid Fuels
	 37%	

Coala
	
7%	
Otherb 
	
5%	
Gas Fuels
2016 TOTAL (SCOPE I AND II) CARBON DIOXIDE 
EQUIVALENT EMISSIONS
10.4 Million Metric Tons
	 45%	

North America
	 30%	

Indonesia
	 20%	
South America
	
3%	
Africa
	
2%	
Europe
a. Associated with the self-generating coal-fired power facility at PTFI.
b. 
Emissions from non-energy consumption processes including leaching of 
calcite-containing ore, lime manufacturing, iron removal and refrigerants.
27
2016 Working Toward Sustainable Development Report
28
Freeport-McMoRan
changes as it is similar to possible fluctuations in mined ore 
grades. Applying this model to our forecasted emissions 
profile and five-year copper production plans does not alter 
our current operating plans.
WATER SUPPLY AND MANAGEMENT
We recognize the importance of responsibly managing 
water resources across the portfolio of mining operations 
in both arid and wet regions. While all our mining operations 
require secure and reliable quantities of water for mining 
and ore processing, most of our operations are located in 
the arid regions of North America and South America.
We used approximately 1,740 million cubic meters of water 
in our operating processes in 2016, of which approximately 
81 percent was recycled water. The majority of our recycled 
water originates from reclaimed water capture at tailings 
storage facilities and leach pads. Mining operations in 
arid regions use both a hydrological modeling analysis to 
evaluate long-term water supply availability and regional 
water supply risks and operational-based water models to 
understand water use, identify recycling opportunities and 
operational losses such as evaporation. The models help us 
develop management practices that maximize the efficient 
use of water. Through this process we have identified 
additional operational practices where recycled water is 
being used that was not quantified in prior reporting, which 
in turn has contributed to the overall increase in percentage 
of total recycled water use.
The company maintains a global water management 
program designed to (1) support metal production by 
supplying required water to process operations; (2) 
minimize water supply and water storage risks associated 
with operational, climatic, social, regulatory and 
environmental conditions; (3) minimize costs associated 
with the acquisition and distribution of water; and (4) 
promote innovation and implement technologies that 
increase water use efficiency. Operational water teams, 
who are supported by corporate policy and technical 
experts, work toward completing operation-specific goals 
by identifying and managing resources; communicating and 
coordinating with key stakeholders; monitoring, managing 
and analyzing water data; reporting and accounting for 
water use and consumption; and developing forecasting 
tools to support future conditions and closure. Although 
the potential physical impacts of climate change on 
our operations are highly uncertain, operations in arid 
regions also conduct annual scenario planning to evaluate 
hypothetical reductions in total water availability and 
hypothetical extreme precipitation events. 
With local support, we are pleased to now have achieved 
full capacity operating rates at the major expansion of 
our Cerro Verde copper mining operation near Arequipa 
– Peru’s second largest city. With a lack of adequate 
ENVIRONMENT
Safford’s comprehensive groundwater management program includes fallowing at least 200 acres annually, retaining an estimated 480 acre-
feet of water in the Gila River riparian habitat. 
Cerro Verde continues to provide financial and technical support 
for water-efficient crop irrigation systems in nearby communities. 
More than 440 local farming families are now utilizing over 27 
kilometers of lined irrigation channels to prevent excess water loss.
29
2016 Working Toward Sustainable Development Report
wastewater treatment infrastructure in the city, Cerro Verde 
financed the design and construction of one of the most 
advanced wastewater collection systems and treatment 
plants (WWTP) in the country through a public/private 
partnership. The WWTP is designed to treat approximately 
90 percent of Arequipa’s domestic sewage and industrial 
discharges that previously reported directly into the Rio 
Chili. An annual average of one cubic meter per second of 
the processed wastewater is now available for use at Cerro 
Verde, while the remainder of the treated water is returned 
to the river.
During 2016, the company continued to store renewable 
surface water supplies at underground recharge facilities 
within Arizona for future use in support of existing 
mine operations, drought backup or to support future 
mine expansions. The company has begun design and 
construction of a water pipeline in partnership with farmers 
in southern Arizona that will bring renewable Colorado 
River water to farm fields, thereby reducing the farmer’s 
dependence on groundwater while at the same time 
providing the company with future renewable water supply 
credits. Additionally, the company, in conjunction with the 
Bureau of Reclamation, completed an environmental study 
during 2016 that allows the company’s Miami operation to 
schedule its first water exchange in 2017 that will result in 
the operation’s long-term utilization of renewable surface 
water supplies.
TAILINGS
The tailings and waste rock (including overburden) that 
we produce represent our largest volume of waste. 
Managing these volumes produced in our mining operations 
presents significant environmental, safety and engineering 
challenges. In 2016, we produced approximately 204 million 
and 231 million metric tons of tailings and waste rock, 
respectively. The primary risks associated with managing 
waste rock stockpiles and tailings relate to structural 
stability, geochemistry, water quality and dust generation. 
Management of this waste is regulated in the jurisdictions 
where we operate, and our programs are designed to be in 
compliance with applicable national, state and local laws, 
permits and approved Environmental Impact Studies.
Freeport-McMoRan’s objective is to have zero catastrophic 
structural failures of tailings storage facilities (TSFs). We 
maintain an active and robust tailings management and 
stewardship program designed for continual improvement 
and assurance, currently operating 18 TSFs and managing 
52 TSFs that are inactive or have been reclaimed. Our two 
newest TSFs – the Linga Tailings Dam at our Cerro Verde 
operation in Peru and the East-West Tailings Dam at our 
Morenci operation in Arizona are now fully operational. 
The Tailings Stewardship Program includes inspection and 
management processes associated with water dams and 
crush leach stockpiles.
At the operational level, qualified internal tailings-dedicated 
engineers and onsite leaders manage TSF stability. We 
employ qualified external Engineer(s) of Record (EoRs) for 
analyses, designs, inspections, and reviews for stability. 
We also follow established operations, maintenance and 
communication protocols. In this process, we regularly 
inspect and monitor phreatic level trends, deposition plans 
and adherence to good operational construction practices, 
water management controls, seepage management, decant 
systems and other stability components. In addition, 
The new Linga TSF and existing Enlozada TSF at Cerro Verde 
continue to be examples of Good Practice in TSF design and 
operations for stability measures and efficient water management.
2016 WATER USE BY SOURCE
1,738 Million Cubic Meters
	 81%	

Recycled Water
	
7%	
Surface Water
	
6%	
Ground Water
	
4%	
Storm Water
	
2%	

Municipal 
Wastewater
30
Freeport-McMoRan
we periodically review as-built conditions through field 
and laboratory geotechnical testing programs under the 
guidance of our EoRs.
Water balance management is incorporated with tailings 
management as a key driver of structural stability. Tailings 
engineers also coordinate with environmental experts on 
water quality management and closure planning associated 
with our TSFs. At TSFs located in arid regions, our tailings 
management program includes measures to reduce fugitive 
dust emissions from the surface of tailings impoundments 
and increase reclaimed water capture to reduce freshwater 
consumption. Our efforts to limit dust generation include 
the application of magnesium chloride, polymers, watering 
and wind fencing.
At the corporate level, we manage TSF stability through 
our Tailings Stewardship Program, which includes multiple 
levels of inspection and review. In the Americas, the 
Tailings Stewardship Team (TST), a multi-disciplinary 
group of internal and external experts, evaluates the 
design, operation and maintenance of TSFs to ensure that 
we are following and internally sharing good practices. 
The TST documents, prioritizes and tracks progress on 
recommended actions. The TST inspects all active and 
select inactive TSFs annually (including Cerro Verde in 
2017). Inactive and closed TSFs are inspected on a site-
specific schedule (every two, three, or four years). Our EoRs 
inspect our operating TSFs at least quarterly, and monthly 
in some cases. Our corporate tailings experts communicate 
frequently with all of our operations with TSFs and follow-
up on recommended actions regularly. In 2016, our TST 
conducted annual field inspections at 17 active and 20 
inactive TSFs. Sites have achieved 98 percent completion 
on TST recommended activities for TSFs (2004 to 2016). 
In the Americas, we also seek the advice of Technical 
Review Boards / External Tailings Review Boards (TRBs), 
composed of internationally recognized external experts 
retained by us, regarding our EoRs’ design and analysis, as 
well as our management of TSF stability. The TRBs provide 
a layer of assurance beyond our TST that our practices 
are in alignment with industry-leading TSF good practices. 
We utilize functioning Boards for all of our active TSFs in 
North America and South America and will be implementing 
Boards at certain inactive sites in the future. 
The TSF failures at the Imperial Metals-owned Mount 
Polley Mine in British Columbia in 2014, and the Samarco 
Mineração S.A.-owned mine in Minas Gerais, Brazil, in 2015, 
were among the largest unplanned discharges of tailings 
in history, with significant loss of life, environmental and 
social impacts. We have studied the published investigation 
and technical panel reports related to these failures. Our 
TSFs have been reviewed by internal and external experts 
to confirm that processes and systems are well aligned with 
resulting recommendations.
We participated in the ICMM Tailings Working Group and 
support the ICMM Position statement on preventing 
catastrophic failure of tailings storage facilities published 
in December 2016. Freeport-McMoRan utilizes all elements 
of the Tailings Governance Framework: accountability, 
responsibility, and competency; planning and resourcing; 
risk management; change management; emergency 
preparedness and response; and review and assurance. 
We continued to enhance our programs and documentation 
around TSF governance and management systems during 
2016. We clarified essential functions and associated 
roles and responsibilities for TSF planning, operations, 
ENVIRONMENT
PTFI overburden stockpiles are re-vegetated using a variety of 
native plants with a goal of establishing an alpine ecosystem similar 
to pre-mining conditions.
Members of the TST inspect the Henderson Tailings Dam in Colorado.
31
2016 Working Toward Sustainable Development Report
surveillance, oversight and improvements. This effort 
included drafting competency requirements for tailings 
engineers and managers. 
Regarding our operations, surveillance, and critical controls 
systems, we have implemented a Key Performance Indicator 
Dashboard for internal communication between multiple 
levels of operations, engineering, and management as a 
minimum standard for all active operations’ surveillance 
activities. Example topics include beach width, freeboard, 
embankment material quality, and status of completing 
recommendations made by the site engineer, EoR, TST, 
and TRB. 
During 2017, we are drafting an “umbrella” TSF Framework 
Management document that connects all of the associated 
programs and procedures together for more effective 
internal communications. We will also begin a pilot of 
mobile data entry and visualization platforms for 
inspections and operational data. Among other 
enhancements, we are also continuing to implement 
training tools and identifying opportunities for 
strengthening technical resources at our operations.
PTFI’s controlled riverine tailings management system, 
which has been approved by the Indonesian government, 
uses the unnavigable river system in the mountainous 
highlands near our mine to transport tailings to an 
engineered area in the lowlands where the tailings and 
natural sediments are managed in a deposition area 
referred to as the ModADA. Levees have been and continue 
to be constructed to laterally contain the footprint of the 
tailings and to limit their impact in the lowlands. 
Whereas our North American and South American TSFs 
utilize the TST and TRB for review and inspection, PTFI uses 
the ModADA Management Board (MMB) for oversight. The 
MMB is a multi-disciplinary expert panel that meets on-site 
approximately twice each year to assess performance and 
risks associated with the ModADA and coastal zone area. 
The MMB focuses on the structural integrity of the levees 
and the geochemical stability of the deposition area, as well 
as associated stakeholder engagement. The MMB provides 
recommendations to PTFI leadership and engineering 
teams on priority activities and tracks progress on all 
associated detailed recommendations. The MMB follows 
–up on actions related to all recommendations during its 
onsite reviews.
PTFI has a tailings and river management department 
with dedicated management, engineers, lab services and 
operations for tailings activities. Members of PTFI’s external 
design team and internal management and engineering 
experts have been involved with its tailings management 
system for decades, providing continuity of services and 
support for the operating team while continuing to add 
resources to stay abreast of good practices. 
We manage waste rock and overburden in stockpiles for 
possible future mineral recovery, reclamation or other 
projects. These stockpiles are regularly monitored and 
evaluated for structural stability in accordance with local 
seismic design criteria. At PTFI, overburden stockpiles are 
subject to erosion caused by the large amounts of rainfall 
in the region (average annual rainfall is 200 inches). The 
eroded stockpile material is eventually deposited in the 
PTFI Environmental Team members conduct water quality and 
biological monitoring activities in the Modified Ajkwa Deposition 
Area.
Birds, such as the Australian pelican (Pelecanus conspicillatus), 
are indicators of overall estuarine habitat quality as they depend 
on the flora and fauna for food, roosting and nesting. Since PTFI 
began quarterly monitoring programs of birds inhabiting Ajkwa 
Island in 2009 and Waii Island in 2012, the number of species 
observed annually has increased from 46 to 122, including a 
tripling of migratory bird species.
32
Freeport-McMoRan
tailings management area in the lowlands. This additional 
material, while predicted in our environmental studies, 
influences both the amounts and timing of deposition of 
finer tailings material in the estuary.
Impacts associated with controlled riverine tailings 
management include the smothering of vegetative 
cover inside the boundary of the ModADA, as well as 
sedimentation impacts to benthic (bottom-dwelling) 
organisms. The fraction of tailings and non-tailings 
sediment that are not retained within the deposition area, 
along with natural sediment from the adjacent Minajerwi 
watershed, are building new islands and wetland areas in 
the Ajkwa estuary below the ModADA. Several independent 
lines of evidence show that these impacts on the benthic 
community are physical in nature, temporary and reversible 
at the end of mine life. 
The monitoring of terrestrial areas that are now outside 
the active tailings management area, but which received 
tailings for several years, shows rapid establishment 
and colonization by native plants. These areas of natural 
succession are abundant and are routinely monitored to 
determine plant community composition and recolonization 
rates. Areas now more than ten years removed from 
deposition are in secondary growth. Data from biological 
sampling continue to also demonstrate that the estuaries 
downstream of the tailings deposition area are functioning 
ecosystems, based on both the number of species and 
the number of specimens collected of nektonic, or free-
swimming, organisms such as fish and shrimp. Large-scale 
demonstration projects show that several land use options 
are possible after final closure of the deposition area. When 
mining is completed, the deposition area will be reclaimed 
with natural vegetation or used for agriculture, forestry, 
grazing of livestock or aquaculture. 
BIODIVERSITY
Freeport-McMoRan is committed to minimizing adverse 
environmental effects of our operations and supports 
biodiversity programs and scientific research. Our 
corporate Biodiversity Task Force provides oversight and 
technical assistance for biodiversity programs across the 
portfolio. In an effort to promote biodiversity, all operating 
mines implement Biodiversity Management Plans and Land 
Management Plans. The Biodiversity Management Plans 
establish a process through which operations identify 
and prioritize voluntary biodiversity projects while Land 
Management Plans ensure that biodiversity considerations 
are incorporated into project planning and design in order 
to minimize adverse impacts to significant biodiversity 
resources where practicable. Most biodiversity projects 
include partnerships with one or more stakeholders such as 
government agencies, local schools, universities and NGOs 
as well as formal educational and outreach elements.
In 2016, several operations conducted programs focused 
on conservation of imperiled species. Safford continued 
restoration of riparian habitats along the Gila River in 
Arizona, which will ultimately benefit several endangered 
native fish and bird species. Tyrone, New Mexico and 
Morenci and Miami, Arizona implemented management 
plans that benefit a number of endangered native fish 
and bird species such as the yellow-billed cuckoo and 
ENVIRONMENT
Migratory birds can attempt to utilize water features at mining locations. Some company mines in the southwestern U.S. use mechanical 
predator Bird Advert Systems (right) along with monofilament lines (left) to deter birds from landing on processed water. 
33
2016 Working Toward Sustainable Development Report
southwestern willow flycatcher. Henderson, Colorado 
continued to monitor the local boreal toad population 
and documented successful reproduction for the first 
time in 3 years. In South America, Cerro Verde continued 
programs to protect species listed as endangered under 
Peruvian law (guanaco and Peruvian long-snouted bat) 
while El Abra implemented programs to benefit endemic 
fish and native vegetation at the Salar de Ascotán. In 
Africa, Tenke-Fungurume expanded the conservation 
program for endangered and endemic plants (“copper 
flora”), and revised the copper flora conservation strategy 
to incorporate lessons learned, long-term monitoring 
results, and new scientific information. The company also 
collaborated with agencies and academic institutions on 
a variety of studies and research projects across the 
portfolio such as studies on aquatic ecology and trophic 
systems in Arizona.
We continued to participate in the Wildlife Habitat Council 
(WHC) Conservation Certification program, which formally 
recognizes meaningful biodiversity conservation and 
environmental education and community outreach 
programs. As of December 2016, a total of 15 operating 
sites and facilities had received gold tier certification, 
which represents WHC’s highest level of recognition. WHC 
also presented Freeport-McMoRan with two prestigious 
wildlife conservation awards in 2016: the Avian Project 
Award and the Grasslands Project Award. Safford 
received the Avian Project Award for their Burrowing Owl 
conservation program, which involved construction of 
artificial burrows, relocation of burrowing owls displaced by 
urban development, and regular monitoring to determine 
burrow occupancy and reproductive success. The project 
involves collaboration with two local NGOs and provides 
the basis for environmental education activities for local 
schoolchildren. Tyrone received the Grasslands Project 
Award for demonstrating exemplary management of 
reclaimed lands as wildlife habitat. Tyrone reclaimed over 
3,500 acres of impacted lands utilizing native annual 
and perennial plants to re-establish a self-sustaining 
ecosystem as demonstrated through regular monitoring 
of vegetation growth and wildlife use in the reclamation 
area. The reclamation design includes ecological benefits 
such as minimizing potential for soil erosion and releasing 
stormwater runoff into the natural drainage systems.
While the company’s biodiversity projects vary in scope 
and size, each provides unique benefit and value for both 
the environment as well as the communities in which we 
operate. These collaborations often serve as the basis for 
community outreach and STEM education opportunities 
for learners of all ages. For instance, Cyprus Tohono 
Corporation (discontinued operation) staff shared lessons 
learned from their pollinator habitat enhancement and 
buffelgrass management efforts with over 300 Tohono 
O’odham Nation school students at Earth Day and youth 
engagement events. Safford staff led and implemented a 
Conservation Day education event that reached over 200 
students from local schools. Students conducted hands-on 
activities on myriad wildlife topics including bats, burrowing 
owls, bighorn sheep, pollinators and native fish.
The company continued to work with industry groups and 
closely monitor developing concepts, including no net loss 
and ecosystem services. In 2016, our staff participated 
in numerous working groups, workshops, and webinars 
sponsored by various groups including Business for Social 
Responsibility, Cross Sector Biodiversity Initiative, and 
ICMM Biodiversity Working Group. We will continue to 
enhance communications on our biodiversity systems and 
initiatives as new developments occur.
The Gruñidor de Valeria (Pristidactylus valeriae) is one of numerous 
endemic reptiles catalogued in the El Abra sponsored book by 
Diego Demangel. Freeport-McMoRan has assisted in publishing 
over 20 books that promote research and conservation of the flora 
and fauna inhabiting areas that surround our global operations.
Since 2011, Freeport-McMoRan 
employees have participated 
in the company’s annual 
biodiversity photo contest. Each 
year approximately 400 photos 
are submitted by employees, 
and the contest successfully 
engages our workforce on 
biodiversity appreciation and 
to promote habitats at our 
worldwide operations. Winning 
photos from the popular 
contest are showcased within 
the Wildlife Habitat Council’s 
Corporate Homes for Wildlife 
calendar, which is distributed 
internationally. The calendar 
showcases efforts by member 
companies to enhance and 
conserve wildlife habitat on 
corporate lands. Winning photos 
selected by the company’s 
Biodiversity Task Force are 
presented on this page.
2016 WINNING 
BIODIVERSITY PHOTOS 
Thistledown Velvet Ant by Gerald Briggs
Near the Bagdad mine
Roadrunner by Jeff Ladderud
Near the Oro Valley office
Baby Javelina by Bill Sircy 
Near the Morenci mine
34
Freeport-McMoRan
2012
      2013
      2014
      2015
      2016
Workforcea
Employees 
34,000
36,100
35,000
34,500
30,000
Contractors 
27,100
38,400
46,300
37,500
29,100
Percent Employees Under Collective Bargaining Agreements
48%
49%
48%
48%
47%
Safety & Healtha
Fatalities 
6
35
7
3
6
Total Recordable Incident Rateb
0.58
0.74
0.56
0.56
0.64
Occupational Illness Cases
25
41
46
43
26
Environment
Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions (million metric tons)
5.7
5.9
5.2
6.0
5.5
Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions (million metric tons)
4.0
4.3
4.3
4.6
4.9
Total Water Consumptionc (million cubic meters)
648 
689 
1,326
1,459
1,738
Percent Recycled Waterc
69% 
69% 
79%
80%
81%
Reportable spills or releases of hazardous or toxic chemicals
12
16
14
13
23d
Notices of Violations related to permit exceedances, spills, 
releases or other compliance matters
4
10
11
2
5
Environmental Penaltiese ($ thousands)
$       47
$      80
$      124
$      43
0
Social
Community Investments ($ millions)
$      173
$     173
$      198
$      165
$      142
Cash Payments to Governmentsa,f ($ millions)
$  2,984
$  2,814
$   3,355
$   1,993
$   1,428
Direct Economic Contributionsa,f ($ millions)
$14,470
$17,283
$17,030
$14,475
$13,414
TREND DATA
a.	 Includes oil and gas assets beginning June 1, 2013
b.	 TRIR = [(Fatalities + Lost Time Incidents + Restricted Duty Incidents + Medical Treatment) x 200,000] / Total Hours Worked
c.	 Excludes all facilities located in Arizona for years 2012-2013 due to water rights litigation
d.	 Year-over-year increase driven by PTFI (including three cases of pipeline sabotage)
e.	 Penalties are typically paid in periods subsequent to the year of the environmental event and/or enforcement action
f.	 Please see detailed information in our WTSD reports published on fcx.com/sd
Note: As a result of methodology changes or corrections, prior year data may be updated. Data presentation and comparisons may not meet the direct needs of all 
stakeholders, and we encourage users of this information to contact our Sustainable Development Department at sustainability@fmi.com with inquiries.
35
2016 Working Toward Sustainable Development Report
