PRODUCING RESPONSIBLY AND POWERING SOCIETY
Many stakeholders share our view that we should serve a 
social purpose and make positive contributions to society for 
the long term. Our sustainable development 
programs facilitate our ability to deliver on 
this ambition.
We must maintain acceptance to operate 
through shared value at the local level in 
order to reinvest in our existing properties 
and invest in new ventures, thereby 
increasing the production of metals needed 
for a healthy and prosperous world. Our 
sustainability performance is critical to 
meeting society’s responsible sourcing 
objectives so that we can place our products, 
which power societal advancement, into the 
global marketplace today and into the future.
To supply essential metals to current and future generations, 
we are guided by our stated business objectives, principles and 
policies, and we work continuously to improve our systems. 
Throughout this report, we review the progress we are making 
on key issues, including those emerging, which affect our 
company and our stakeholders. 
Many stakeholders share our 
view that we should serve a 
social purpose and make positive 
contributions to society for 
the long term. Our sustainable 
development programs facilitate 
our ability to deliver on this 
ambition.
6
Safford mine, Arizona
OUR APPROACH
7
2018 WTSD REPORT
PRINCIPLES OF BUSINESS CONDUCT 
Freeport-McMoRan’s Principles of Business Conduct (PBC) 
highlight our core values of SAFETY, RESPECT, INTEGRITY, 
EXCELLENCE and COMMITMENT, and they help guide how 
we do business, from top-level management to entry-level 
employees. The PBC sets forth a variety of business principles, 
from promoting a safe workplace to complying with laws 
and avoiding conflicts of interest to developing positive 
relationships with local communities. Freeport-McMoRan 
and its affiliates have established multiple mechanisms 
for employees and other stakeholders to report concerns 
regarding potential violations of the PBC. One of the primary 
mechanisms is the Freeport-McMoRan Compliance Line, a 
phone system managed by an independent third party that 
allows for anonymous reporting. In addition, we offer a 
web-based reporting system, also operated by a third party, 
along with an option for direct email to our Compliance 
Department. These accessible channels complement our 
long-established community and human rights grievance 
systems that collectively support our implementation of 
the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. 
By providing multiple reporting mechanisms, including 
anonymous communications, our workforce is encouraged 
to Speak Up if something violates, or could possibly violate, 
our PBC. 
During 2018, we revised the Freeport-McMoRan Supplier 
Code of Conduct, which sets forth our expectations for our 
supply chain partners in areas such as safety, respect for 
human rights, anti-corruption, community and environment. 
These policies, along with external standards and initiatives, 
form the overall framework that guides our sustainability 
programs. Supporting this framework are internal governance 
and management systems that detail how we operate. 
GOVERNANCE 
The Freeport-McMoRan Board of Directors (Board) as 
a whole is responsible for risk oversight, with reviews 
being conducted by the relevant Board committees that 
regularly report to the full Board. In its risk oversight role, 
the Board reviews, evaluates and discusses with members 
of management whether the risk management processes 
designed and implemented are adequate in identifying, 
assessing, managing and mitigating material risks facing 
the company. 
Our Non-Executive Chairman regularly meets with our Chief 
Executive Officer and discusses a variety of matters including 
business strategies, opportunities, key challenges and risks 
facing the company as well as management’s risk mitigation 
strategies. Senior management attends regularly scheduled 
Board meetings where they present on various strategic 
matters involving our operations and are available to address 
any questions or concerns raised by the Board. The Board 
oversees the strategic direction of the company and, in doing 
so, considers the potential rewards and risks of our business 
opportunities and challenges and monitors the development 
and management of risks that impact our strategic goals. 
The Board has four standing committees: Audit, Compensation, 
Nominating and Corporate Governance, and, Corporate 
Responsibility, each of which is composed entirely of 
independent directors. The Corporate Responsibility 
Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight 
responsibilities with respect to the management of risks 
associated with our safety and health policies and programs, 
environmental policy and programs, human rights policy and 
practices, community and public health programs, community 
policy and practices, governmental and stakeholder relations, 
sustainable development programs, programs to evaluate and 
address climate-related impacts and opportunities, charitable 
contributions, and political activity and spending practices.
During 2018, the Corporate Responsibility Committee received 
various reports and considered items with a particular focus 
on safety, which included reviewing the root causes of safety 
incidents and corrective actions implemented to prevent 
future accidents. In addition, the Corporate Responsibility 
Committee reviewed our human rights program, including 
the results of the human rights impact assessments at Cerro 
Verde and the New Mexico operations, responsible sourcing 
frameworks, social investment and charitable contributions, 
progress addressing reclamation and remediation liabilities, 
community medical and public health services, political 
activity and spending practices, and financial sector 
stakeholder engagement on sustainability matters. The 
Corporate Responsibility Committee reports to our Board, 
which provides oversight on all matters.
The Grasberg Block Cave will anchor the world’s largest underground copper mining complex. 
Above, an automated rail system is being installed on four levels of the mine to safely 
transport ore and materials.
8
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT LEADERSHIP TEAM 
Our company’s Sustainable Development Leadership Team 
considers both imminent matters and emerging trends 
while providing strategic guidance for our programs. The 
team is sponsored by our Senior Vice President and Chief 
Administrative Officer and is led by our Vice President-
Environmental Services and Sustainable Development. Our 
Chief Operating Officer, business unit presidents, as well as 
vice president-level or senior staff from the safety, supply 
chain, security, human resources, sales, legal/compliance, and 
land and water functions comprise the team. The team solicits 
input from internal and external subject matter experts.
During the year, the team reviewed and addressed key issues 
and projects including:
•	
Evolving responsible sourcing frameworks and product 
branding initiatives, including the Responsible Mining 
Initiative’s Risk Readiness Assessment, International 
Copper Association’s “Copper Mark” and Cobalt Institute’s 
Cobalt Industry Responsible Assessment Framework
•	
Development of ICMM’s newly adopted Performance 
Expectations and plans for asset-level implementation 
and assurance
•	
Updates to the Freeport-McMoRan Sustainable 
Development Risk Register process that include additional 
topics with enhanced definitions for assessment that cover 
common areas of interest for downstream stakeholders
•	
Proposed update to the Corporate Responsibility Committee 
charter to include opportunities to improve the overall 
business resiliency to climate-related impacts and trends 
in public disclosures associated with climate change
•	
Opportunities for solar project development on or near 
company properties and renewable power contracting 
opportunities with utilities
•	
Trends toward increased ESG* integration and 
consideration into investment decisions within 
mainstream financial sector organizations and related 
engagements with specific organizations including 
sustainability research firms
•	
Progress on strategic projects to secure long-term 
renewable water sources for operations 
•	
Status of the company’s initiatives to recruit and advance 
career opportunities for women in our workforce
•	
Key observations related to independent assurance of our 
sustainability programs, including implementation of the 
ICMM Sustainable Development Framework
* Environmental, social and governance
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 
We inform, consult and involve communities and partners 
in order to develop and improve our policies, programs, 
projects and initiatives. We formally engage with community 
stakeholders across our portfolio, as well as economic partners 
and development institutions, government regulators, non-
governmental organizations (NGOs), community leaders 
and general members of the public. Annually, hundreds of 
entities are engaged via community foundations, formal 
grievance systems, community liaison officer interactions, 
workshops, participatory group panels, town hall meetings and 
topical surveys. Engagement also occurs through regulatory 
consultation processes with governmental entities and 
community groups, including with indigenous peoples. 
Consistent dialogue allows us to work alongside community 
members to avoid and mitigate impacts and capture 
opportunities to implement projects that drive sustainability. 
Capacity building through engagement is critical to assisting 
communities to be resilient to downturns in commodity cycles 
and in planning for eventual closure of our operations. 
In 2018, our corporate team engaged with over 100 investor 
organizations, sustainability analyst firms, banking 
institutions, NGOs, and multi-sector company sustainability 
teams regarding our programs and performance. Many of these 
organizations include multiple members or affiliations, thus 
expanding the reach of our engagement program. Our corporate 
team also works closely with our commodity sales departments 
to engage both downstream customers and international 
governmental agencies on sustainability programs and 
addresses specific environmental and social areas of interest 
that could affect access to markets for our various products. In 
addition, our operational-level teams regularly engage locally 
with community stakeholders, development institutions and 
civil society organizations. We believe that effective stakeholder 
engagement can help reduce sustainability-related risks and 
enable us to continue to deliver positive contributions to society.
In 2019, there has been increased interest from various 
organizations in our tailings management program following 
recent catastrophic tailings dam failures at unaffiliated mines. 
We are committed to engaging on specific measures associated 
with our tailings management and stewardship program. 
In 2018, Cerro Verde partnered with over 1,100 community members, engineering associations, 
government institutions and local universities to test air and water quality around its operations. 
Above, participants examine air filter data after 24 hours of monitoring.
OUR APPROACH
9
2018 WTSD REPORT
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP 
Product stewardship is critical to our business across the 
suite of minerals and metals we produce. It entails a variety 
of activities that allow continued market access for our 
products. These range from complying with chemicals 
management regulations related to transport and labeling to 
working with international NGOs to promote the use of sound 
science when assessing the health, safety and environmental 
risks associated with our products. Over the last few years, 
product stewardship has evolved to include demonstration of 
responsible production of our products to downstream users. 
As a result, we are enhancing our supply chain due diligence 
while continuing to implement increasingly advanced 
performance standards for mining and refining. 
To address these needs, our cross-functional Product 
Stewardship Team engages downstream customers, 
responsible sourcing initiatives, commodity and trade 
associations as well as international governmental agencies 
on operational and product-specific sustainability topics. 
The team is led by our Vice President-Environmental Services 
and Sustainable Development and our Director-Product 
Stewardship with active participation by our global product 
sales, legal and business unit technical teams. During 2018, 
the team addressed topics including: 
•	
Our participation and engagement with multiple commodity, 
business associations’ and international governmental 
organizations’ development of responsible sourcing 
frameworks including the International Copper Association’s 
“Copper Mark” program concept
•	
Individual due diligence requests from downstream 
organizations for information related to our sustainability 
policies, programs and performance
•	
Evolving regulations that may require additional product 
labeling for certain of our products
•	
Enhancements to our Sustainable Development Risk 
Register assessment process that includes additional 
sustainability-related topics, such as climate-related 
impacts, that are of interest to value chain partners
•	
Further development of life cycle assessments for our 
products – quantifying the environmental impacts of our 
products and considering inputs such as water, energy and 
raw materials as well as releases to water, land and air
•	
Compliance with global chemical legislation (e.g. the 
European Union’s Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation 
and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) program, U.S. Toxic 
Substances Control Act, and developing programs such as 
Korea REACH) 
Moving forward, we will focus on advancing its product 
stewardship strategy by continuing to map its value chains – from 
raw material sources to end users – continuing to collaborate with 
key stakeholders and industry associations to advance responsible 
production and consumption and work closely with customers to 
understand their evolving requirements. 
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT RISK REGISTER 
The Freeport-McMoRan Sustainable Development framework 
is based on operation-specific factors and influences, including 
regional context, type and stage of operation and social setting. 
Essential to this framework is the Sustainable Development 
Risk Register process, which prioritizes the most significant 
risks that could have negative consequences to our business 
and our stakeholders across areas including health and 
safety, respect for human rights, environmental management, 
community development and economic impacts. 
The Sustainable Development Department and senior, 
multi-disciplinary experts support operations so that 
prioritization processes are consistent with corporate 
procedures and provide associated thought input. Our 
Sustainable Development Risk Register process was updated 
during 2018 to include additional categorical topics with 
more extensive definitions for risk evaluation, which include 
climate-related impacts and consideration of the potential 
for human rights impacts across topics. This update is in part 
intended to reflect due diligence priorities of actors in the 
metals value chain, including members of the Responsible 
Minerals Initiative. In 2018, we also integrated an SDG 
alignment assessment into the process to track specific efforts 
in avoiding impediments to applicable goals. Cross-functional 
disciplines from all operations participated in a series of 
tutorials on application and use of the enhanced Risk Register 
process, and the revised process was implemented in the 
second half of 2018.
Sustainability Focus Areas identified through this process 
are annually reviewed by our Sustainable Development 
Leadership Team and communicated to our Board. Our 
current areas of focus are described on the following pages 
and throughout this report.
On January 9, 2018, the Climax mine celebrated the production of its 2 billionth pound of 
molybdenum, the same year Climax Molybdenum Company celebrated its 100th anniversary. 
Molybdenum improves the strength of low alloy steel, making the element ideal for lightweight 
applications such as fuel-efficient vehicles, power generation turbines and aerospace components.
10
ANTI-CORRUPTION 
As a U.S.-based mining company with substantial assets 
located outside of the U.S., our business may be adversely 
affected by issues related to corruption. We maintain a 
robust anti-corruption training and reporting program in 
addition to our Principles of Business Conduct training. 
Any violation of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or 
other anti-corruption laws of jurisdictions in which we 
operate could result in significant criminal or civil fines 
and penalties, litigation and loss of operating licenses or 
permits. (p. 17)
BIODIVERSITY 
We own, lease and operate large land holdings, some of 
which are in and adjacent to areas of high biodiversity 
value. Our operations are managed to identify potential 
impacts and implement the mitigation hierarchy 
to avoid, mitigate or offset impacts to biodiversity, 
including during reclamation activities. (p. 31) 
CLIMATE-RELATED IMPACTS AND OPPORTUNITIES 
We recognize that climate change poses significant 
near-term, medium-term and longer-term challenges 
for society. We also understand that climate change 
presents risks and opportunities for our operations 
and our financial performance. We aim to manage and 
mitigate, to the extent possible, climate-related risks to 
our business with the ambition of being a net positive 
contributor to climate solutions primarily through 
delivery of copper to global markets. (p. 25) 
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT 
Our social and economic development programs are 
designed to be responsive to issues raised by communities, 
including vulnerable groups and indigenous peoples, and 
to help us maintain good relations and avoid disruptions 
of operations. Nevertheless, social and political instability 
in the areas of our operations may adversely impact our 
operations. (p. 21) 
HEALTH AND SAFETY 
The safety of our global workforce is our highest priority. 
Through implementation of our Fatal Risk Management 
program, we aim to eliminate fatalities by identifying 
and implementing critical controls and delivering 
multi-faceted training and enhanced communications 
throughout our workforce. (p. 15) 
SUSTAINABILITY FOCUS AREAS
SUSTAINABILITY FOCUS AREAS
The compacted centerline Tailings Storage Facilities (TSFs) at our Cerro Verde operations in Peru continue to be examples of good practice of TSF design and operations. The Linga TSF 
(above) achieves structural stability and efficient water management.
11
2018 WTSD REPORT
HUMAN RIGHTS 
Respect for human rights is a core value and we continue 
to conduct our operations consistent with the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights and the United Nations 
Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. 
We are advancing site-level human rights impact 
assessments within our portfolio. Our operations may 
be adversely affected by security risks stemming from 
events including political instability, labor strikes and 
civil strife. The Voluntary Principles on Security and 
Human Rights serve as guidelines for our security and 
human rights programs. (p. 19)
LABOR RELATIONS 
Thirty-seven percent of our global employee base was 
covered by collective labor agreements at year-end 
2018. We engage openly with our employees and union 
leadership to successfully negotiate and uphold labor 
agreements, recognizing that prolonged strikes or other 
work stoppages at our operations can adversely affect our 
business, our workforce and regional stakeholders. (p. 14) 
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP 
Our product stewardship team engages downstream 
customers, upstream suppliers, industry associations 
and international governmental agencies on operational 
and product-specific sustainability issues. We believe 
that proactive engagement on product stewardship issues 
is mandatory to address risks associated with market 
access for our products. (p. 9) 
TAILINGS MANAGEMENT AND STEWARDSHIP
Through our tailings management and stewardship 
program, we employ substantial engineering expertise, 
technological monitoring, and operational and corporate 
management oversight to design, build, operate and 
monitor these facilities to minimize risk to employees, 
neighboring communities and the environment. We 
have a strong commitment from our Board and executive 
management team to provide the necessary resources to 
protect safety. (p. 28) 
WATER SUPPLY AND MANAGEMENT 
We recognize the importance of responsibly managing 
water resources at mining operations in both arid and 
wet regions. While all of our mining operations require 
secure and reliable quantities of water for mining and 
ore processing, most of our operations are located in 
arid regions of North America and South America. We 
maintain a global water management program designed 
to increase water use efficiency in our processes while 
minimizing the use of fresh water. (p. 27)  
PERFORMANCE TARGETS
BUSINESS ETHICS
Provide comprehensive training on our Principles of Business Conduct, 
including annual certification by management-level employees
√
All employees were trained in 2018, including a 100% 
certification rate by management-level employees.
With our online training module, annually train 90% of selected 
employees who interact with, or have the potential to interact 
with, government officials on anti-corruption laws, regulations and 
company policies and procedures
√
In 2018, 100% of the employees selected to 
participate in the online training completed the course.
WORKFORCE
Increase the percentage of women in our workforce, including 
representation in managerial roles, to 15%
X
Women comprise 13% of our employee population 
and hold 12% of all managerial positions.
HEALTH AND SAFETY
Incur zero fatalities
√
We incurred zero industrial-related fatalities at our 
operations in 2018.
Meet company wide total recordable incident rate (TRIR) of 0.70
X
At 0.71 for 2018, we did not meet our target TRIR.
HUMAN RIGHTS
Incur zero gross human rights violationsa at our operations caused by 
employees and contractors
√
We did not incur any gross human rights violations at 
our operations caused by employees or contractors.
COMMUNITIES
Invest (in aggregate) 1% of the average of the previous three 
years’ annual mining operations revenue (as reported in 
Freeport-McMoRan’s audited consolidated financial statements) in 
community programs, including in-kind support and administration
√
Approximately $155 million was invested in community 
programs across our operations ($2 million above our 
2018 target).
ENVIRONMENT
Incur zero significant environmental events (consequence rating of 
three or higher on our Sustainable Development Risk Register)
X
During the year, we incurred one significant 
environmental event related to fugitive dust from 
Sierrita’s tailings impoundmentb.
Incur zero penalties in amounts exceeding $100,000
√
Our operations did not incur any penalties 
exceeding $100,000.
Note: All performance targets are annually recurring.
a. 
There is no uniform definition of gross human rights violations under international law; however, the United Nations Office of the High Commissioner report: The Corporate 
Responsibility to Respect Human Rights – An Interpretive Guide, provides guidance on identifying such types of violations.
b. 
The event primarily affected the community rather than the environment; this event violated Sierrita’s air quality permit and may result in future penalties.
12
Successfully recruiting, retaining, developing and advancing 
talented employees from diverse backgrounds is key to achieving 
our business objectives. We offer rewarding careers as part of a 
team that, every day and everywhere, embraces our core values of 
SAFETY, RESPECT, INTEGRITY, EXCELLENCE and COMMITMENT.
LOCAL HIRING AND SKILLS DEVELOPMENT
Hiring talent from regions where we operate incorporates 
local cultures and knowledge into our business systems while 
supporting local economies. We maintain tailored training 
programs to facilitate this objective.
In Arizona, our training partnership program with the San 
Carlos Apache Tribe is designed to increase the skills and 
employability of Apache students with our company or within 
other industries. Training, which includes life skills coaching, 
ranges from heavy equipment operations and maintenance to 
electrical applications. Over 1,200 students have entered the 
program through 2018, and approximately 50 percent have 
graduated. We currently employ 420 Native Americans and/or 
Native Alaskans, an increase of 24 percent year over year. 
At PT Freeport Indonesia (PTFI), located in the remote 
province of Papua, Indonesia, we prioritize hiring indigenous 
Papuans. Approximately 98 percent of PTFI employees are 
Indonesian, 41 percent of whom are indigenous Papuans 
(up 5 percent since 2016). We are progressing our Papuan 
Sustainable Human Capital Development program to increase 
opportunities for indigenous Papuans – particularly those 
from the seven neighboring tribes – to join our workforce. 
The program includes a three-week course to enhance life 
and work skills by teaching teamwork, behavioral safety and 
workplace compliance expectations. To date, approximately 
200 Papuans completed the program and have been hired by 
contractor organizations to work throughout PTFI operations.
Our Nemangkawi Mining Institute (NMI) in Papua has placed 
over 2,700 apprentice graduates into full-time employee 
and contractor positions at PTFI, 90 percent of whom are 
indigenous to Papua. NMI continues to address skill sets 
needed for PTFI’s underground mining operations. 
PTFI has supported the continuing education of nearly 300 
of its employees in recent years (including 118 Papuans), 
through a combination of scholarships and partnerships with 
exchange programs both in Indonesia and other countries. 
The PTFI internship program also has provided educational 
opportunities to nearly 600 interns (including 120 Papuans) 
since 2013.
In addition to these training programs, our global 
Organizational Development Team facilitates organizational 
performance improvement utilizing varying tools and 
processes with our employees throughout their careers. For 
example, our Leadership Development Program includes 
courses aimed toward enhancing the skill sets of existing and 
future leaders in areas including communication methods, 
mentoring and time management.
EMPLOYEES
Approximately 26,800
	
45%	

North America
	
27%	
Indonesia
	
23%	

South America
	
5%	
Europe/Other
CONTRACTORS
Approximately 38,800
	
60%	
Indonesia
	
23%	

North America
	
15%	
South America
	
2%	
Europe/Other
13
2018 WTSD REPORT
Freeport-McMoRan’s training partnership program with the San Carlos Apache Tribe 
provides vocational skills and job opportunities to Native American men and women. Above, 
instructor Rick Opitz (left) leads Harvina Bendle and Anthony Gooday in a heavy equipment 
maintenance lesson.
WORKFORCE
At year end 2018
At year end 2018
14
INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY
We operate in regions of varying ethnic, religious and 
cultural backgrounds and are generally the largest employer 
in local communities. The diverse backgrounds, experiences 
and perspectives within our workforce are assets, and 
we promote the acceptance and inclusion of different 
perspectives and backgrounds. We prohibit discrimination 
and harassment, and our PBC and Human Rights Policy 
require that all employees treat everyone in and around our 
operations with dignity and respect. 
We promote a positive and productive work environment 
where every employee is respected and valued. We do 
not tolerate any form of harassment or discrimination 
against individuals on the basis of race, color, sex, religion, 
national origin, disability, age, veteran’s status or any other 
characteristic protected by applicable law. 
It is our policy to make all employment decisions on the basis 
of the essential functions of a position and the qualifications 
of each individual for that position, and provide equal pay 
and benefit opportunities to persons with substantially 
similar skills, performance and job responsibilities. Such 
decisions are also based on facts and business needs rather 
than favoritism or bias. 
Seeking ways to recruit and foster career development for 
women in our company is important, as women historically 
have been underrepresented in the mining sector. Women 
serve in key management roles within our organization, 
including our Chief Financial Officer and two members of our 
Board, while approximately 330 women hold manager-level 
or higher positions. We continue to make progress toward 
our target of increasing women in our global workforce as 
well as in managerial roles to a minimum of 15 percent. The 
percentage of women in our company is about 13 percent 
globally (up from 11 percent one year prior) and varies across 
geographies, from a high of 18 percent in North America to a 
low of 7 percent in both South America and Indonesia.
In 2018, we used feedback from a survey of female employees 
in North America to determine the best interventions for 
raising internal awareness, increasing training opportunities, 
creating a more inclusive culture, improving female retention 
rate and giving women equal opportunities for career 
advancement. In 2019, we are launching a global initiative to 
further strengthen our focus on inclusion and diversity in 
the workplace.
LABOR RELATIONS
We respect the rights of our workers to freedom of association 
and collective bargaining and that workers’ rights to join 
a union are maintained. We do not tolerate any form of 
harassment, discrimination or retaliation, including violent 
or threatening behavior, within our workforce, including 
against union or non-union members. This is reinforced in 
our mandatory PBC training for all employees and the ability 
for anyone to report suspected violations without retaliation 
through our global Compliance Line. 
We work cooperatively with 15 unions in eight locations 
worldwide. Thirty-seven percent of our employee population 
is covered by collective labor agreements (CLA), with 21 
percent of employees covered by agreements scheduled to 
expire in 2019. 
During 2018, a new CLA was reached at Cerro Verde with no 
work stoppages and ahead of the legally regulated process. At 
Rotterdam, a CLA was also agreed on with no interruptions to 
operations and within the legally appointed time frame.
PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES UNDER COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS
By Operating Region
Seeking ways to foster career development opportunities for women is a company-wide 
objective. Vicki Seppala held numerous engineering and supervisory roles at our operations in 
North and South America before becoming General Manager of the Climax mine.
20
100
80
40
60
North America
0%
Europe/Other
72%
Indonesia
71%
South America
65%
Company-wide
37%
WORKFORCE
15
2018 WTSD REPORT
Our highest priority is the health and safety of our employees 
and their families. Our objective is for zero workplace fatalities, 
injuries and occupational illnesses. We are committed to providing 
a safe and healthy workplace and providing the training, tools and 
resources needed to identify risks and consistently apply effective 
controls. We share information about potential fatal events, near 
misses and best practices throughout the company and engage 
with industry peers to continuously improve our health and 
safety performance. 
Our philosophy of SAFE PRODUCTION is demonstrated by the 
integration of health and safety practices in all aspects of our 
operational activities. Our Occupational Health and Safety 
Management System (OHSMS) is the framework under which 
we prioritize and manage risk as well as address compliance 
obligations. We maintain a corporate group certification 
to the internationally recognized Occupational Health and 
Safety Assessment (OHSAS) 18001 Standard. This certification 
requires third-party registrar site-level verification that we 
operate in a manner consistent with OHSAS and with a goal to 
prevent fatalities and reduce incidents. A total of 23 combined 
systems audits were conducted across our core operations to 
verify certification requirements in 2018. 
We measure our safety performance through regularly 
established benchmarks, including our company wide Total 
Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR). In 2018, our TRIR (including 
contractors) was 0.71 per 200,000 man-hours worked, missing 
our 0.70 target for the year. Low-energy events, such as 
sprains and strains, at certain operations in North America 
adversely affected our TRIR. 
We worked 131 million hours in 2018 compared to 117 
million hours in the prior year, and we recorded a total of 
464 reportable injuries in 2018 compared to 444 in 2017. 
We are seeing a downward trend in the number of high-
energy safety incidents in recent years, as we have focused 
our safety programs on workplace tasks with the highest 
potential consequences.
Our health and safety performance and associated reporting 
encompass our direct employees as well as contractors. The 
Freeport-McMoRan Contractor Health and Safety Manual 
defines the minimum expectations and requirements for 
contractors working at our operations. As with our employees, 
site-specific health and safety training is conducted with 
contractors that is tailored to critical control implementation 
and includes the Fatal Risk Management policies and 
processes discussed below.
FATAL RISK MANAGEMENT 
To achieve our objective of incurring zero workplace fatalities 
we have begun implementation of a Fatal Risk Management 
(FRM) program, which is the evolution of our Fatality 
Prevention initiative. The FRM requires that we identify 
potentially fatal risks in the field and apply the controls 
most critical for avoiding fatal consequences associated 
with the task. This includes verification and auditing of 
critical controls, as a leading indicator, to assess their proper 
utilization and effectiveness. To date, we have identified 23 
potentially fatal risks that are common across some or all of 
our operations, and we have placed fatal risk icon placards at 
work areas where these risks are present. 
Every employee is responsible for their safety and the safety 
of those in the environment where they work. Our culture of 
Safe Production and leading by example at all levels of the 
organization supports our FRM implementation. In particular, 
our front-line supervisors play a vital role in reviewing 
assigned tasks for the shift and assisting crew members 
with identifying potentially fatal risks. Supervisors use tools 
such as pre-task critical control verification checklists that 
are customized for specific fatal risks. These tools promote 
quality conversations to be confident that everyone on the 
job understands the hazards and required critical controls. 
Anyone on the job is expected to STOP WORK immediately if 
critical controls are missing, deemed not effective or unsafe 
conditions exist. 
Geomechanical engineers use instruments such as radar and GPS to detect conditions that 
could lead to pit slope failure. Above, Engineers Caesar Oppong and Enrique Silva calibrate a 
radar unit that scans for slope movement at Tyrone operations.
HEALTH AND SAFETY SUMMARY DATA
Including Contractors
	
2018
Workplace Fatalities	
0
Total Recordable Incident Rate	
0.71
Occupational Illness Cases	
42
TRIR = [(Fatalities + Lost-time Incidents + Restricted-duty Incidents + 
Medical Treatment) x 200,000] / Total Hours Worked
HEALTH AND SAFETY
16
Critical control verifications prioritize high-risk tasks that 
rely more on behaviors than engineered controls and provide 
immediate leading indicator data to strengthen the FRM and 
our overall Health and Safety system. We are utilizing a mobile 
platform that guides users through a checklist to validate 
that necessary critical controls are in place and effectively 
implemented for a particular task with exposure to a fatal risk. 
The system captures any variance with our critical controls 
and allows us to create action plans to address these gaps.
Health and Safety system improvements in 2018 include:
•	
Introduced streamlined Health and Safety policies and 
process documents across the organization for clarity 
and focused applicability in the field; this includes the 
Contractor Health and 
Safety Manual which 
was updated to clarify 
company expectations. 
•	
Developed a 
Management of Change 
(MOC) Policy and 
Guidance to apply to 
potential changes in 
the workplace that can 
result in unplanned 
adverse impacts on 
processes, systems and/
or people. The MOC 
requires the proper 
level of review of the 
proposed change by 
multi-disciplined 
personnel with 
appropriate skill sets. 
The purpose includes 
avoiding consequences 
of unforeseen 
safety hazards and 
ensuring changes are 
communicated to all 
applicable personnel. 
•	
Began a review to 
improve our Root Cause 
Analysis (RCA) process 
to give us confidence 
that we are asking the 
right questions to “drill 
down” far enough to gather underlying causes of events, 
including what behavioral factors lead to conscious 
breaches of safety policies and procedures. This project 
includes an assessment of the leadership qualities and 
capacity necessary to effectively conduct robust RCAs.
•	
Initiated a global executive review of Potential Fatal 
Events (PFE). As soon as possible after a PFE occurs, 
over 50 global operational and corporate leaders convene 
to review and understand the findings as well as share 
ideas for future preventative measures. This creates a 
better understanding of the event for communication 
across the organization. 
•	
Conducted external expert evaluation of the weekly 
activities of our Health and Safety professionals to review 
opportunities to reduce administrative tasks that could 
impede SAFE PRODUCTION leadership efforts in the field. 
•	
The OSHAS 18001 standard is being replaced by the 
Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems of 
the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 
45001 and will be retired in March 2021. Planning for the 
transition to ISO 45001 began 
during the year with full 
company-wide conversion 
expected by 2021. 
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH
All of our operations 
maintain comprehensive 
occupational health 
programs to assess the risk 
of exposure to occupational 
health hazards and 
identify controls for those 
risks. Our Field Guide for 
Occupational Health and 
Industrial Hygiene defines 
occupational exposure 
limits, standards and 
practices that apply globally. 
Forty-two occupational 
illness cases were reported 
at our operations during 
2018 compared to 38 the 
prior year.
We continued the expansion 
of medical monitoring 
procedures in 2018 to 
assess if employees are fit 
for duty, to look for early 
indications of occupational 
health impairment and to 
provide opportunities for early intervention. We continued 
to expand our FRM to review exposures to carcinogens and 
hazardous substances that could result in acute or chronic 
effects in addition to traditional safety hazards. These efforts 
are expected to lead to identifying improved critical controls, 
particularly related to dust controls, ventilation systems and 
chemical process monitoring. 
HEALTH AND SAFETY
17
2018 WTSD REPORT
We are committed to the highest level of ethical and legal conduct. 
The Freeport-McMoRan Principles of Business Conduct (PBC) are 
a commitment to integrity and define the expected behavior of 
all employees and our Board. We conduct comprehensive training 
on our PBC, including annual certification by management-level 
employees. This process consists of computer-based training, as 
well as a signed certification that the employee understands the 
PBC and is not aware of cases of non-compliance. Furthermore, 
managers and supervisors are responsible for ensuring that the 
employees who report 
to them understand 
these principles.
ANTI-CORRUPTION
Corruption is 
sometimes widespread 
in local government 
systems and cultures 
near our operations. 
We do not tolerate the 
offering or payment 
of bribes, kickbacks 
or other similar 
payments to any 
person or organization 
or government official 
to secure advantages 
for our business. 
Likewise, we do not 
accept any of these 
payments. Our Anti-
Corruption Policy and 
Guidelines require 
compliance with the 
U.S. Foreign Corrupt 
Practices Act (FCPA) 
and other relevant 
anti-corruption laws, 
including local laws.
We deployed a new anti-corruption online training module 
in 2017. The training is mandatory for annual completion by 
select groups of employees utilizing a risk-based approach. 
For example, senior-level employees who may interact with 
government officials are required to complete the training. 
The online training does not replace our existing classroom 
training programs; rather, it supplements our existing systems 
and extends the reach of our overall compliance efforts.
In recognition of the potential legal liability that could result 
from actions of our business partners under the FCPA and 
other laws, the company implements an online due diligence 
platform, the Freeport Compliance eXchange (FCeX). FCeX is 
a survey-based software platform designed to assess risk in 
the areas of anti-corruption, international trade and human 
rights. FCeX has enhanced the company’s ability to identify, 
assess and mitigate compliance risks.
Annually, we perform company wide audits with the 
assistance of our internal audit firm to assess risk and plan 
for the following year’s audit strategy. Formal fraud risk 
assessments have been implemented at Atlantic Copper, El 
Abra, Cerro Verde, PTFI 
and our corporate offices 
and mapped with business 
controls which are tested 
and reviewed annually. 
The fraud risk assessments 
consist of more than 100 risk 
scenarios across more than 15 
process areas, such as Asset 
Management, Purchasing, 
Payables and Financial 
Reporting. All of these 
risk assessments include 
corruption as a risk factor.
INFORMATION AND REPORTING
Among other reporting 
mechanisms, 
Freeport-McMoRan 
maintains a Compliance 
Line to provide guidance 
and assistance to workforce 
members with any questions 
or concerns related to our 
PBC, policies or procedures. 
To encourage our workforce 
to report potential violations 
of business conduct, our 
Compliance Line allows 
anonymous reporting.
During 2018, 257 reports 
were made through the 
Freeport-McMoRan Compliance Line relating to various 
topics, including employee workplace conduct, environment, 
health and safety, protecting company assets and conflicts 
of interest. All reports are investigated and, if substantiated, 
appropriate disciplinary action is taken, up to and including 
termination of employment.
Principles of Business Conduct
STRENGTH IN VALUES
SAFETY // RESPECT // INTEGRITY // EXCELLENCE // COMMITMENT
compliance@fmi.com
fcxcompliance.alertline.com
Question or Concern?
Contact your supervisor, 
another manager or local HR 
1-800-295-6783
SPEAK 
UP
IF SOMETHING 
DOESN’T 
FEEL RIGHT 
REPORT IT
BUSINESS ETHICS
TRANSPARENCY OF GOVERNMENT PAYMENTS
Freeport-McMoRan has endorsed and committed to 
support the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative 
(EITI) since 2008. EITI is a 
global standard to promote 
transparent and accountable 
management of natural resources. The initiative is a 
commitment by governments to disclose revenues received 
and by oil, gas and mining companies to disclose natural 
resource payments to governments in an annual EITI report. 
In implementing countries, governments, extractives 
companies and civil society work together in a multi-
stakeholder group forum.
We have significant mining operations in Indonesia and Peru, 
both of which are EITI implementing countries. Senior-level 
PTFI and Cerro Verde personnel actively support the in-country 
EITI processes. We have hosted site visits for the EITI board 
and associated stakeholders as well as provided sponsorship to 
regional conferences and the tri-annual global conference.
Freeport-McMoRan publicly discloses its material contracts 
and supports contract transparency in the extractives sector. 
Payments made to host governments via taxes, royalties and 
other obligations significantly contribute to national, regional 
and local development. In addition to our country-level EITI 
commitments, we voluntarily report annual cash payments to 
governments, including sub-national payments, in all regions 
where we conduct business, as presented in the table below.
CASH PAYMENTS TO GOVERNMENTSa
FOR THE YEAR ENDED	
U.S.	
CHILE	
PERU	
INDONESIA	
OTHER	
TOTAL
DECEMBER 31, 2018 ($ MILLIONS)	
	
	
	
	
COUNTRIESb

Corporate Income Taxes, Net of Refunds	
$	 (3)	
$	16	
$	162	
$	705	
$	22	
$	 902
Withholding Taxes on Foreign Dividends 	
	
-	
	 2	
	
1	
	 182	
	
-	
	
185
Employee Payroll Taxesc	
	 309	
	 11	
	
83	
	
54	
	 23	
	
480
Dividends	
	
-	
	
-	
	
-	
	 148	
	
-	
	
148
Royalties and Net Severance Taxes 	
	
24	
	 1	
	
41	
	 214	
	
-	
	
280
Property Taxes 	
	
81	
	
-	
	
-	
	
17	
	 2	
	
100
Other Taxes and Feesd 	
	
52	
	 13	
	
68	
	 207	
	(26)	
	
314
TOTAL 	
$	463	
$	43	
$	355	
$	
1,527	
$	21	
$	
2,409 
a. This schedule reflects a voluntary effort by Freeport-McMoRan to capture its cash payments to governments (net of refunds).
b. Represents cash payments to governments by Freeport-McMoRan’s other business groups that are located outside of the countries where Freeport-McMoRan conducts its primary operations.
c. Includes payroll taxes collected on behalf of employees and paid to governments.
d. Includes customs and export duties as well as withholding tax on foreign services.
We believe that increased transparency of revenues and payments promotes better governance and accountability regarding the management of natural resources. Above is the Plaza de Armas 
in Arequipa near our Cerro Verde mine, one of Peru’s largest mining operations.
18
BUSINESS ETHICS
19
2018 WTSD REPORT
Our Human Rights Policy, first established in the late 1990s and 
most recently updated in 2017, commits us to respecting human 
rights, conducting business in a manner consistent with the 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights and implementing the 
United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.
To meet these commitments, we continue to conduct site-level 
human rights impact assessments (HRIAs) using a framework 
aligned with the UN Guiding 
Principles (UN Guiding Principles), 
the scope of which is summarized in 
our Human Rights Dashboard. We also 
continue to integrate human rights 
considerations across relevant business functions. In 2018, 
associated activities included:
•	
Launching a corporate level Human Rights Working 
Group to support our site-level implementation of the 
UN Guiding Principles.
•	
Updating our Sustainable Development Risk Register 
process to include additional categorical topics with 
more extensive definitions for risk evaluation, including 
consideration of the potential for human rights impacts 
across topics.
•	
Advancing the development of responsible sourcing due 
diligence programs for the goods and services we procure 
as well as for metals that we purchase from third-party 
sources for further processing. 
•	
Continuing to engage the financial community, civil 
society, downstream customers, responsible sourcing 
initiatives, commodity and trade associations as well as 
international governmental agencies on a regular basis. 
This included organizing a set of international-level 
stakeholder meetings to provide updates and receive 
feedback on our human rights program, including 
the results of the Cerro Verde HRIA as well as making 
presentations via multi-stakeholder forums.
We promote human rights awareness through engagement 
with host governments and local communities as well as by 
providing training to employees and contractors. We conduct 
our security activities using the Voluntary Principles on 
Security and Human Rights as guidelines. 
While we seek to avoid causing adverse impacts, we 
acknowledge that they may occur despite our best efforts. 
We have multiple mechanisms for employees, community 
members and members of our supply chain to report 
concerns. We are continuing our global grievance review 
project to test these internal and external grievance 
mechanisms against the UN Guiding Principles effectiveness 
criteria (i.e., legitimate, accessible, predictable, equitable, 
transparent, rights-compatible, a source of continuous 
learning, and based on engagement and dialogue). In 2018, 
this included internal benchmarking and leveraging an 
employee training platform and existing stakeholder 
engagement mechanisms to solicit feedback from employees, 
community members, suppliers and other third parties on 
their knowledge of and trust in our grievance mechanisms 
UNITED NATIONS
& HUMAN RIGHTS
BUSINESS
ON
GUIDING PRINCIPLES
Topics reflected in the dashboard are mapped against recognized international human rights 
HUMAN RIGHTS “DASHBOARD”
EMPLOYEES
VALUE CHAIN
COMMUNITY
ENVIRONMENT
THIRD PARTIES
Working conditions
Working conditions
Standards of living / 
quality of life
Pollution
Conduct of private 
security forces
Safe and healthy 
working conditions
Safe and healthy 
working conditions
Community health 
and safety
Water security
Conduct of government security forces
Discrimination
Discrimination
Economic activity / 
livelihoods
Waste and hazardous 
materials management
Contribution to conflict
Freedom of association and 
collective bargaining
Freedom of association and 
collective bargaining
Minorities and 
indigenous peoples
Increased exposure to 
natural hazards
Presence of artisanal / 
small-scale miners
Child labor
Child labor
Displacement / resettlement
Corruption
Privacy
Privacy
Cultural heritage
NGOs and civil 
society groups
Forced and 
compulsory labor
Forced and 
compulsory labor
Children's rights, including access to 
education
Judicial system 
(access to remedy)
HUMAN RIGHTS
20
as well as how these might be improved. These mechanisms 
help us address concerns early and remediate impacts 
directly. We do not tolerate retaliation against anyone who 
raises a question or concern in good faith and will protect the 
confidentiality of anyone who reports suspected violations.
CERRO VERDE HRIA
We engaged Verisk Maplecroft to carry out an HRIA at our 
Cerro Verde operation in Peru in 2017. Many of the risks and 
impacts identified are subject to established human rights-
relevant management systems. Where the findings identified 
gaps in Cerro Verde’s management systems, cross-functional 
teams developed action plans. Actions were selected based on 
the severity of impact, whether an actual or potential impact, 
the time sensitivity of remediation (e.g. likelihood of continued 
harm) and company influence/leverage. Priority areas varied 
and included an allegation by an anonymous stakeholder that 
a small number of workers may be experiencing serious health 
impacts linked to on-site activity, the need for greater visibility 
of supplier risk exposure, and stakeholder perceptions related 
to environmental impacts and associated monitoring.
NEW MEXICO OPERATIONS HRIA
In 2018, we engaged Verisk Maplecroft to carry out an HRIA 
at our New Mexico operations in the U.S. Fieldwork included 
extensive direct engagement with more than 150 stakeholders 
in and around our Chino and Tyrone mines in Grant County. 
This included a range of actually or potentially affected rights 
holders as well as those with insight into such rights holders. 
Key findings included a set of medium severity health and 
safety impacts reflecting the risks typically associated with 
mining-related activities, a relatively significant volume of 
moderate and low-severity impacts relating to standards of 
living/quality of life (including noise, vibration, speeding 
vehicles, traffic, light pollution, impacts on views, etc.), and 
alleged and/or actual impacts on air quality (including dust 
and odors). 
The Chino and Tyrone teams are reviewing the results of the 
HRIA to develop action plans to address priority risks and 
impacts. Action plans will be embedded within Chino and 
Tyrone’s Sustainable Development Risk Register process to 
support the continuous improvement of their existing systems 
and processes. Where necessary, these will establish new 
measures to investigate, prevent, mitigate and/or remedy 
identified human rights risks and impacts. Lessons learned 
from site-level HRIAs are shaping our global human rights 
strategy as well as site-level HRIA work at other operations. 
Please refer to the Human Rights section of our website for 
more information on both the Cerro Verde and New Mexico 
HRIAs as well as our overall human rights approach.
SECURITY 
The Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights 
serve as guidelines for our security and human rights 
programs, including 
interactions with host 
government police and 
military personnel as well as private security contractors. 
Our 2018 Annual Report to the Voluntary Principles Plenary 
includes country implementation details for Indonesia 
and Peru, as these countries represent our higher risk 
environments in terms of security and human rights. The 
report includes information on a series of sporadic shooting 
incidents experienced by our PTFI operation in Indonesia 
between August 2017 and August 2018 as well as security 
incidents at its Amamapare port.
Cerro Verde’s Security Department partnered with fellow Voluntary Principles member Socios 
Perú to sponsor a three-day human rights seminar for over 260 Peruvian National Police 
members who serve in the Arequipa region.
Megan Kuefler, Manager-Business and Human Rights, presents the New Mexico operations 
Human Rights Impact Assessment project plan at a Grant County Community Partnership 
Panel meeting.
HUMAN RIGHTS
21
2018 WTSD REPORT
By its nature, mining creates impacts on local communities. 
Working with local stakeholders, we implement mitigation 
measures for unavoidable adverse impacts and seek to maximize 
the delivery of positive, lasting social benefits.
We engage with local stakeholders and their legitimate 
representatives throughout project lifecycles to build 
relationships and the trust needed to create shared 
benefits. Our Community Policy mandates engagement 
and collaboration with local communities to minimize and 
mitigate unavoidable adverse impacts while maximizing 
opportunities to deliver value from our presence.
Open, transparent and regular engagement with a wide 
range of local stakeholders builds our understanding of 
their interests and concerns, encourages communities to 
provide input into our operations and development projects 
and promotes understanding of our business. This helps 
reduce risks to our operations and our ability to deliver on 
our community development and engagement plans. Open 
communication and dialogue with local stakeholders and 
their representatives take a number of forms – formally 
through open house meetings linked to regulatory processes, 
informally through interactions with our community 
development specialists in the field and via community 
partnership panels, community investment funds or 
foundations and targeted capacity building efforts.
COMMUNITY INVESTMENT
Freeport-McMoRan’s community investment strategy 
addresses high-priority needs and facilitates local capacity-
building with the goal of enabling community well-being, 
resiliency and sustainability. We are increasingly focused on 
investing in the “sustainability of people” – enhancing the 
skills and opportunities individuals need to reach their full 
potential and play a progressively active role in the prosperity 
of their own communities. Through our active engagement 
and capacity building efforts, we work with stakeholders to 
understand what contributes to community welfare, such 
as health, interconnection, learning, attainment, growth, 
economic opportunity, affordability and financial security. By 
understanding more about what makes our communities thrive, 
we can work together to deliver more impactful investments.
In partnership with communities and local governments, many 
of our social investment programs align with and advance the 
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) or help 
mitigate impediments to their realization, particularly the 
Goals of Good Health and Well-being (SDG 3), Quality Education 
(SDG 4), Gender Equality (SDG 5), Clean Water and Sanitation 
(SDG 6), and Decent Work and Economic Growth (SDG 8).
In addition to direct community investment from individual 
operations and the Freeport-McMoRan Foundation, we have 
established community trust funds or foundations in Chile, 
Indonesia and the U.S. We maintain established Community 
With a social investment from El Abra, 28 families in the indigenous village of Cupo now 
have access to clean, running water.
Cerro Verde is celebrating the 10-year anniversary of the Uchumayo nursery, an innovative 
research and training center with doors open to students and the general public. The 
nonprofit nursery has supplied over 800,000 seedlings of various native species for 
reforestation efforts in Arequipa.
2018 COMMUNITY INVESTMENT
$155 million
* 
Includes arts, culture, resettlement, mitigation, stakeholder engagement and employee programs, 
such as Matching Gifts and United Way
	
40%	
Community Trust Funds
	
15%	

Safety, Health and 
Environment
	
15%	

Economic Development 
and Infrastructure
	
15%	
Other*
	
12%	
Education and Training
	
3%	

Administration
COMMUNITIES
Investment Funds for communities near our operations and 
a Native American Partnership Fund for tribal communities 
in the U.S. These funds typically are managed by community 
members who determine the allocation of resources to 
priority programs that strengthen the foundational elements 
of sustainable communities, including education, health, 
economic development and the environment.
With most of our mining operations located in rural and 
remote areas, Freeport-McMoRan maintains a significant 
focus on supporting efforts aimed at building capacity and 
increasing economic diversification to reduce dependency 
on our presence. This includes building a foundation of 
resiliency during times of commodity market fluctuations as 
well as a post-mining future. 
We invest significantly in supporting development of small 
businesses and the ecosystems critical to their success. The 
centerpiece of this work is “DreamBuilder – The Women’s 
Business Creator,” our online entrepreneurship education 
and training program for women who want to start or grow 
their own small business. Now in its ninth year, we continue 
to expand and engage women in the U.S., Chile, Peru and 
beyond. Since inception, over 40,000 women across 65 
countries have leveraged DreamBuilder to equip them with 
the resources needed to become financially independent 
business owners. Further, Freeport-McMoRan’s Financing 
Your Dream companion course helped women create Capital 
Action Plans to identify and secure funding needed to start 
and sustain their businesses. The latest survey indicates 
approximately 56 percent of participants have increased 
sales, 34 percent hired additional employees, and 66 percent 
pay themselves a salary (as compared to only 18 percent who 
did so prior to DreamBuilder). 
As part of a “G5 Collective,” a coalition of multi-sectoral 
partners, we have committed to invest a minimum of $5 
million to implement additional activities focused on women’s 
empowerment in Chile, Peru, Indonesia and the U.S. by 2021. 
Members of the Collective are working to advance SDG 5, 
particularly focusing on women’s economic participation, 
addressing violence against girls and women and advancing 
female leadership in the private and public sectors. As part 
of this effort, we embarked upon a new partnership with 
Vital Voices (VV) to develop a fellowship program to support 
women’s leadership in public life. The VV Engage program 
was launched in 2018, and the first cohort of 25 women 
fellows from across the globe, including countries where we 
operate, was established. 
In Indonesia, PTFI has committed to provide one percent 
of its annual revenue for the development of indigenous 
Papuan communities through the Freeport Partnership 
Fund for Community Development. The Amungme and 
Kamoro Community Development Foundation (LPMAK) 
is the Papuan community organization that oversees 
disbursement of these program funds. LPMAK is governed 
by a Board of Commissioners and a Board of Directors, both 
comprised of representatives from local Amungme and 
Kamoro communities, local government, Papuan regional 
leaders, church leaders and PTFI. PTFI’s contribution to the 
Partnership Fund was $55 million in 2018 and over $790 
million since its inception in 1996. In 2018, PTFI and LPMAK 
signed an agreement extending the funding arrangement 
between the two organizations through June 2019. PTFI also 
initiated a process to convert the structure of LPMAK into an 
Indonesian foundation, a process expected to be completed 
by the end of 2019. During the transition, the Partnership 
Fund will continue to be capitalized with no interruption in 
implementation of approved health, education and economic 
development projects and programs. Once the transition 
is complete, a new Board structure and composition will 
strengthen the long-term effectiveness of PTFI’s social 
investments with a goal that the new foundation will achieve 
financial self-sufficiency before mine closure.
COMMUNITY GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS
Our site-level community grievance mechanisms are tailored 
to local cultures and allow us to document and respond to 
issues and concerns raised by local community members 
The Freeport Partnership Fund for Community Development in Indonesia provides access 
to education for more than 480 indigenous children from remote areas to schools such as 
the Taruna Papua School and Dormitory near Timika shown above. Since inception, the 
partnership fund has provided over 11,000 scholarships to Papuan students.
22
2018 GRIEVANCES (226)
	
28%	
Community Benefits
	
24%	
Environment
	
11%	
Health and Safety
	
10%	
Other
	
9%	
Land Rights
	
9%	
Property Damage
	
6%	
Indigenous Peoples
	
3%	
Employment
COMMUNITIES
23
2018 WTSD REPORT
in a timely manner. Grievances are typically received by 
Community Liaison Officers (CLOs) in the field, through 
engagement at established company/community forums, in 
physical drop boxes or via local telephone hotlines. Regardless 
of how grievances are received, they are reported to the site 
Community Grievance Officer, who relays the grievance to 
the relevant department for evaluation. CLOs help investigate 
grievances and work with community members and their 
representatives to address concerns, solve problems, and 
mitigate and remedy impacts. For grievances with potential 
high community impacts, company management is involved 
and applicable government authorities are engaged as needed. 
During 2018, 226 community grievances were recorded at our 
global operations in addition to approximately 630 grievances 
related to dust events at our Sierrita operation in Arizona. 
Regardless of the type and credibility of the allegations, all 
cases reported are documented, reviewed and closed once a 
final decision is made and subsequent action is taken.
We are reviewing our community grievance procedures 
against the effectiveness criteria outlined in the UN Guiding 
Principles. In addition to conducting internal benchmarking, 
we engaged with a set of community stakeholders to obtain 
their feedback via our formal Community Partnership Panel 
meetings in the U.S. as well as our site-level HRIA processes. 
These inputs are informing updates to our community 
grievance process, which we expect to be completed in 2020.
INDIGENOUS PEOPLES
Our local stakeholder engagement and social investment 
objectives include formal interactions with indigenous peoples 
in Papua, Indonesia, Native Americans in the United States, and 
the traditional communities of Alto El Loa in Chile. Through 
community engagement, cultural promotion and preservation 
projects, as well as training and development programs, we 
seek to address needs while being sensitive to cultures and 
customs of indigenous peoples near our operations. Engaging 
with groups focused on indigenous peoples rights at the local, 
national and international levels also is important for sharing 
information about approaches to effectively engage with 
indigenous peoples in diverse geographies.
In the U.S., we continue to build on our relationships 
with federally recognized Native American Tribes in the 
southwest, including the Hualapai Tribe, the San Carlos 
Apache Tribe, the Tohono O’odham Nation and the White 
Mountain Apache Tribe. We are engaging tribes that have 
historically occupied areas near our operations and those 
with ancestral connections to these lands. We are also 
evaluating how free, prior and informed consent fits within 
established regulatory processes in the U.S.
By engaging with the tribes and co-designing initiatives to 
meet mutual needs, we have been able to further advance our 
Native American Partnership Fund, Community Activities 
Contributions and Scholarship Program. Over the last five 
years, 243 college scholarships have been awarded to tribal 
Sierrita successfully worked with Green Valley and Sahuarita residents to address 
approximately 630 complaints (from locations shown in green) received via its Community 
Information and Grievance Line related to a series of dust events in October 2018.
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
( !
(
!
(!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
( !
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
( !
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
( !
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(!
(
!
( !
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(!
(
!
(!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
( !
(
!
( !
(
!
(!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
( !
(
!
(
!
( !
(
!
( !
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
( !
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(!
(
!
(!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
( !
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
( !
(
!
( !
(
!
(
!
(!
( !
(!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
( !
(
!
(
!
(!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(!
(
!
(
!
( !
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
( !
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
( !
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
( !
(
!
(
!
(
!
( !
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
( !
(
!
( !
(
!
(
!
(
!
( !
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
( !
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
( !
( !
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(!
(
!
(
!
(!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
( !
(
!
(
!
(
!
(!
(
!
( !
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
!
(
.
0
0.5
1
1.5
2 Miles
Source: Esri, DigitalGlobe, GeoEye, Earthstar Geographics, CNES/Airbus 
DS,USDA, USGS, AeroGRID, IGN, and the GIS User Community
A book documenting the customs and traditions of the indigenous community of Chiu Chiu 
recently was published as a means to help preserve its cultural heritage. The publishing, 
with financial support from El Abra, followed a year of community-led research. 
24
members through our Native American College Scholarship 
Program. An additional 32 women entrepreneurs from our 
partnership tribes have been trained to start or grow small 
businesses on their respective reservations through Project 
DreamCatcher, a one-week, small business training program 
for women. Our technical training institute for tribal 
members interested in pursuing jobs in mining and related 
industries continues to be a mutually beneficial program, 
training 1,272 tribal members and placing 326 in trade jobs 
over the past five years.
We continue to evaluate a large-scale brownfield expansion 
opportunity at our El Abra operation in Chile, where we 
maintain relationships with indigenous communities. As 
we advance studies to determine the scope and timing of the 
project, we are committed to respecting the rights, interests, 
aspirations, culture and natural resource-based livelihoods of 
these indigenous communities in project design, development 
and operation. We seek to achieve their free, prior and 
informed consent where significant adverse impacts are 
likely to occur, and capture the outcomes of engagement and 
consent processes in agreements or resolutions.
Collaboration with existing communities and early 
engagement with two additional indigenous communities 
located near the potential expansion project’s power and 
water corridor continued in 2018, resulting in changes 
of the corridor route to an alternative proposed by both 
communities. Further engagement with eight additional 
indigenous groups in Calama, including the Indigenous 
Women’s Association and the Indigenous Traditions and 
Customs Alto El Loa Association Lickan Antay, was advanced, 
which allowed El Abra to better understand the communities’ 
relationship with the region.
To complement the Indigenous Peoples Employment Program 
established in 2017, El Abra implemented a new apprenticeship 
program to provide work experience to students who have 
completed post-secondary education. Seven communities 
currently participate in the Indigenous People Employment 
Program and by the end of 2018, more than 50 positions had 
been filled by members of neighboring communities.
In Papua, Indonesia, a culturally diverse region, PTFI has 
engaged with indigenous Papuan tribes for decades, including 
through multiple formal agreements that promote workforce 
skills training as well as health, education and basic 
infrastructure development. PTFI has financed several books 
documenting the social uniqueness of the Amungme and 
Kamoro tribes. PTFI also collaborates with an NGO focusing 
on the preservation and promotion of Indigenous art through 
regular exhibitions, school visits and support for art festivals 
around Indonesia.
PTFI continues to work with Kamoro community members to 
review and mitigate the impacts of the Levee Extension project, 
which helps us meet the requirements of the Environmental 
Impact Assessment approved by the Government of Indonesia 
that tailings remain with the Modified Deposition Area 
(ModADA). PTFI’s multi-stakeholder approach includes both 
a water transportation program and economic development 
activities suited for Kamoro culture. Under the program, 
developed in consultation with village members, PTFI operates 
an integrated passenger boat and bus service to provide 
regular transportation services between coastal villages to 
the east of the tailings deposition area as well as access to 
health care, education and economic trade facilities available 
in the Timika region to the west. PTFI works with the Kamoro 
to strengthen economic activities and support increased 
production and marketing of local commodities. This includes 
a fisheries program, which PTFI supports in partnership 
with the Catholic church; the introduction of cocoa as a cash 
crop and a karaka (mangrove crab) aquaculture program 
for Kamoro youth. PTFI also collaborates with the Mimika 
government to develop a coconut plantation in Manasari and is 
working with Kamoro community members to reinvigorate a 
sago plantation in Nayaro. 
For more information on our community programs, please 
visit the Communities section of our website and 
freeportinmycommunity.com.
COMMUNITIES
In coordination with local governments and NGOs, PTFI invests substantial resources to help 
indigenous populations to reduce public health risks.
25
2018 WTSD REPORT
The Freeport-McMoRan Environmental Policy, updated in 2018, is 
based on our objective to be compliant with laws and regulations 
and to minimize environmental impacts using risk management 
strategies based on valid data and sound science. It requires that 
we review and take account of the environmental effects of each 
activity, whether exploration, mining or processing, and that we 
plan and conduct the design, development, operation and closure 
of facilities in a manner that optimizes the economic use of 
resources while minimizing adverse environmental effects.
All of our mining and mineral processing operations maintain 
Environmental Management Systems (EMS) certified to ISO 
14001:2015, which are independently audited on an annual 
basis. As part of the EMS, employees and contractors are 
trained on site-specific subject areas, including chemical 
management, waste management, air quality controls, and 
spill prevention and response. In addition to job-specific 
training, workforce members receive annual environmental 
refresher training and are monitored and supported in the 
field by environmental professionals. Site management teams 
identify, manage and mitigate environmental risks through 
our structured risk register process.
During 2018, we conducted internal environmental audits 
at 10 operations, and our facilities were inspected by 
governmental regulatory agencies on approximately 100 
occasions. Since 1996, an independent environmental audit 
has been conducted at PTFI every three years. An executive 
summary and responses to the 2017 audit recommendations 
are posted on our website. All operations have corrective 
action programs associated with the overarching EMS as well 
as audit and inspection findings.
When operations receive a Notice of Violation (NOV) from 
a regulatory agency such as shown in the table below, the 
citations typically have involved brief and minor exceedances 
of permit conditions or other record keeping violations, which 
have zero or minimal environmental impact. We had two 
dust-related NOVs in late 2018 at Sierrita. 
CLIMATE-RELATED IMPACTS AND OPPORTUNITIES
Freeport-McMoRan recognizes that climate change poses 
significant near-term, medium-term and longer-term challenges 
for society. We also understand that climate change presents 
risks and opportunities for our operations and our financial 
performance. We aim to manage and mitigate, to the extent 
possible, associated risks to our business with the ambition of 
being a net positive contributor to climate solutions through 
delivery of copper to global markets. 
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE INDICATORS
	
2018
Reportable spills or releases of hazardous or toxic chemicals	
 15*
NOVs related to permit exceedances, 	
13
spills, releases or other compliance matters	
Environmental Penalties	
$0
* 
Excludes PTFI where approximately 70 reportable spills occurred, including a 
high percentage from pipeline sabotage.
An initial project to develop the Lone Star oxide ores commenced in first-quarter 2018, with 
associated first cathode production from Safford processing facilities expected by the end of 
2020. This work has contributed to approximately 27 percent of Safford operation’s greenhouse 
gas profile during 2018.
ENVIRONMENT
DID YOU KNOW?
Copper has an extremely long and productive life that 
is critical to achieving the UN SDGs and enabling the 
global energy transition. To produce a metric ton of 
primary copper cathode, approximately 4.8 metric tons 
of carbon emissions are emitted to the atmosphere. 
However, because of copper’s effectiveness in electrical 
applications, between 100 and 7,500 tons of CO2 
emissions can be reduced as a result of that investment, 
resulting in a mitigation factor of up to 1,500 to 1. In fact, 
the International Copper Association estimates that by 
2030, copper could reduce global carbon emissions by 
16 percent. Furthermore, that investment in copper is a 
good one – over two-thirds of copper produced since 
the 1900 is still in use today – with over 70 percent in 
electrical applications.
26
Energy and Emissions Management 
Within Freeport Minerals 
Corporation1 (FMC), we generally 
operate very large, low-grade 
copper deposits. These open-pit 
operations require significant 
energy, principally diesel, 
electricity and natural gas, most 
of which are obtained from 
third parties under long-term 
contracts. Energy represented 
approximately 20 percent of our 
copper mine operating costs 
in 2018. This is why our asset-
level objectives include a sharp 
focus on minimizing operating 
costs. Truck haulage is a major 
contributor to both cost and direct 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. 
As our open pits continue 
to mature, haul road length 
increases, and trucks are required 
to move ore farther distances to 
processing facilities. In 2018, we 
increased mining rates, which 
included reactivation of significant 
truck haulage capacity. In doing so, we continued to use 
real-time systems coupled with big data analytics to enhance 
predictive maintenance and operational performance to enable 
achievement of the highest availability and utilization of our 
haul trucks. A global benchmark of this metric continues to 
indicate that FMC achieves operational efficiencies 10 percent 
greater than our average mining company peer. Maintaining 
top-quartile equipment utilization supports our low cost 
profile with the benefit of emissions avoidance associated with 
inefficient asset use. 
FMC’s total GHG emissions in 
2018 were 4.9 million metric tons 
compared to 5 million metric 
tons the year prior. Direct, or 
Scope I, emissions increased 
approximately 300,000 metric 
tons, primarily driven by fuel 
consumption associated with 
higher mining rates and stripping 
activity at the Lone Star project 
(accounted by Safford). 
In 2018, FMC’s purchased power 
from renewable and low carbon 
sources increased to 87% from 80% 
the year prior. Thirty percent of 
the purchased power was solely 
generated from renewable sources. 
As sufficient information has 
become accessible for determining 
the sources of our purchased 
power at most operations, we 
have transitioned to a market-
based methodology for indirect, 
or Scope II, emissions accounting. 
Scope II emissions decreased 
approximately 300,000 metric tons 
from the prior year while consumption of purchased power 
increased by approximately 4 percent. As the percentage of low 
carbon and renewable power in electric grids increases, we 
expect we can further reduce our Scope II emissions over time.
El Abra in Chile recently extended its energy supply contract 
that increases its consumption of renewable power, and 
by 2021, the operation expects 100 percent of its electrical 
power requirements will be sourced from renewables. Other 
operations participate in utility demand-side efficiency 
programs and support renewable energy standards when 
feasible, such as providing mining-related properties for 
solar power generation, including 20MW of solar generation 
in Arizona. Additionally, in late 2018, Freeport entered into a 
14MW renewable purchase power agreement to source wind 
generation from Wyoming to mining operations in Arizona.
We do not currently operate in jurisdictions where existing 
mechanisms for carbon pricing signal a material increase to our 
costs. As countries implement programs to meet objectives of the 
COP 21 agreement (Nationally Determined Contributions), we 
may experience increased costs relating to changes in energy 
sources for, and GHG emissions from, our operations. In certain 
jurisdictions, however, we expect to enter into favorably priced 
power contracts with utilities as economic, renewable sources 
represent larger percentages of generation capacity. 
In addition to related disclosures in this report, we have 
prepared a separate Climate Impacts and Opportunities report. 
The report, along with an independent verification statement of 
our 2018 greenhouse gas footprint, can be found on our website. 
El Abra’s energy supply contract increases the use of renewable energy sources, thereby 
reducing Scope II emissions. By 2021, renewable energy is expected to supply 100 percent 
of the operation’s power requirements.
2018 FMC TOTAL (SCOPE I AND II) 
CARBON DIOXIDE EQUIVALENT EMISSIONS
4.9 Million Metric Tons
	
42%	
Scope 1
	
58%	
Scope 2
ENVIRONMENT
2018 FMC PURCHASED POWER BY SOURCE
87% Low Carbon
	
49%	
Natural Gas
	
28%	
Hydro
	
13%	
Coal, Other Fossil
	
8%	
Nuclear
	
2%	
Solar, Wind
1 
Includes Bagdad, Chino/Cobre, Morenci, Safford, Sierrita, Tyrone and the 
Miami smelter in North America as well as Cerro Verde and El Abra in 
South America.
27
2018 WTSD REPORT
WATER SUPPLY AND MANAGEMENT
We operate mines, smelters, processing facilities and 
reclamation projects around the world that require water 
for metal production or for site rehabilitation. Our mining 
operations are in areas where competition for water supplies 
is significant. We recognize that access to safe and clean water 
and sanitation is a fundamental human right and understand 
the critical importance of responsible water management.
Our operations utilized1 approximately 1,540 million cubic 
meters of water during 2018, including water withdrawals2 of 
approximately 300 million cubic meters. Eighty-one percent of 
our total utilized water was from recycled or reused sources. 
Our objective is to maintain high rates of recycled or reused 
water, and our performance has approximated 80 percent in 
recent years. We are implementing the ICMM Water Position 
Statement and applying its water reporting guidelines, which 
include a water use efficiency metric that takes into account 
our water discharged back to the environment at applicable 
operations. By accounting for discharge quantities of 96 million 
cubic meters, our water use efficiency was 86 percent for 2018. 
Freeport-McMoRan maintains a global water management 
program designed to (1) increase water use efficiency in 
our processes and minimize the fresh water used by the 
operations; (2) maximize the reuse of water introduced to 
our operations; (3) replace traditional water supplies with 
renewable or recycled water supplies; and (4) collaborate with 
catchment stakeholders including local communities. The 
process begins with applying operational-based water models 
to understand our water use in order to minimize water losses 
(such as evaporation or seepage), maintain quality standards 
and identify opportunities for reuse. This allows us to seek 
a reduction in water needs where operational efficiencies 
allow, depending on production requirements. In addition 
to optimizing water use at our mining facilities, our water 
management practices are aligned with strategic objectives 
designed to maintain the safe operation and structural 
stability of our tailings storage facilities.
Minimizing our reliance on makeup water for operations is 
only one part of our water management program. To achieve 
a reduced water footprint within multi-user catchments, we 
continuously analyze the sources of our water and actively 
seek renewable and recycled sources. We have made progress 
in achieving this management objective, including:
•	
Replacing 50 percent of the makeup water needs at Cerro 
Verde with treated effluent from a wastewater treatment 
plant in Arequipa, Peru. 
•	
Securing long-term and annual allocations of Colorado 
River water, considered a renewable source in Arizona, 
where the company operates in an arid climate. This effort 
is focused on obtaining both short-term and long-term 
water supply contracts with multiple Native American 
tribes who have senior water rights in the state. These 
agreements reduce our reliance on local groundwater 
and surface water and help Arizona accomplish its goal of 
moving industrial water users away from groundwater 
sources. The company is also partnering with other key 
business and governmental entities to develop water 
exchanges and additional water pipelines that will assist 
in the flexibility to utilize newly acquired alternative 
water sources such as treated effluent. In 2018, the 
company was able to offset 70 percent of its freshwater 
needs in Arizona through recharging Colorado River water 
in areas of the state where water is needed. 
•	
Evaluating a large-scale expansion at El Abra in the 
Chilean Atacama Desert, where rainfall averages less than 
an inch per year to process additional sulfide material 
and to achieve higher recoveries. The project would 
likely include construction of a desalination plant and 
Collaboration with local stakeholders on projects to improve water quality and availability 
is core to our social investment priorities. Cerro Verde led a multi-stakeholder partnership 
to provide clean drinking water and a wastewater collection and treatment program that 
benefits more than 1 million people in the Arequipa region of Peru.
2018 TOTAL UTILIZED WATER
1,543 Million Cubic Meters
	
81%	
Recycled Water
	
7%	
Groundwater
	
4%	
Surface Water
	
3%	
Sea Water
	
3%	
Stormwater
	
2%	

Third-party Sources
1 Total Utilized Water = withdrawals + recycled + reused
2 
Withdrawals or Makeup Water = surface water + groundwater + 
stormwater + sea water + third-party supply (such as municipal waste 
water effluent)
28
accompanying 90-mile pipeline. Technical and economic 
studies are being advanced to determine the optimal scope 
and timing for the project. 
•	
Serving as a leading member of an international coalition 
conducting studies to bring desalinated water to the 
southwest U.S. and working with another international 
coalition that would work to capture raw sewage to 
convert it into usable water.
•	
Evaluating a proposal for a joint water storage project to 
capture runoff in the Rocky Mountain region that would 
support existing mine water supplies and development of 
new supplies for local communities.
Preventing on-site and off-site impacts to water resources 
also is core to our water management system. Stormwater 
is actively managed and contained on-site for operational 
use by utilizing various piping systems, sumps, containment 
structures and dams. We are reviewing the potential for more 
frequent and intense precipitation events that could result in 
impacts to on-site and off-site water resources. During such 
events, it is critical to route on-site water from areas in danger 
of overflowing to areas with adequate storage capacity.
At the operating level, each active mining and metals 
processing facility evaluates climate-related risks and 
opportunities through its sustainable development risk 
register process. This includes reviewing the potential 
for physical climate risks, including impacts from intense 
weather events that could jeopardize the resiliency of revenue 
generating operations.
TAILINGS MANAGEMENT AND STEWARDSHIP
Affiliates of our company currently operate 18 tailings 
storage facilities (TSFs), 16 in the U.S. and two in Peru, and 
manage 59 in the U.S. that are inactive or reclaimed. Our 
inventory of TSFs comprises 13 active and 53 inactive or 
reclaimed facilities with an upstream design, five active and 
five inactive with a centerline design, and one reclaimed 
facility with a downstream design. After a detailed review of 
corporate records, we have recently increased the number of 
reported facilities to account for legacy operations that were 
reclaimed several decades ago.
We recognize that the failure of tailings and other 
impoundments at any of our mining operations could cause 
severe – and in some cases catastrophic – property and 
environmental damage and loss of life. Many of our tailings 
impoundments are located in areas where a failure has 
the potential to impact individual dwellings, and a limited 
number of impoundments are in areas where a failure 
has the potential to impact nearby communities or mining 
infrastructure. As a result, our programs take into account 
the significant consequences resulting from a potential 
failure, and we apply substantial financial resources and 
technical resources, both internal and external, to materially 
reduce the likelihood of failures.
Our Tailings Management and Stewardship Program 
launched in 2004 and has evolved significantly over the last 
15 years. Today, through the Program, we employ substantial 
engineering expertise, technological monitoring, and local 
and corporate management oversight to validate these 
facilities are designed, built, operated and monitored to 
minimize risk to employees, neighboring communities and 
the environment. These safeguards generally fall within four 
categories: (1) engineering and design; (2) rigorous adherence 
to construction and operational parameters through 
monitoring; (3) multi-tiered oversight; and (4) adherence to 
practices grounded in continuous improvement and learning 
from past experiences, including industry failures. 
The majority of our recycled water originates from reclaimed water captured at tailings facilities 
and leach pads. Above, water on the Morenci tailing impoundment is set to be recycled.
Above is the tailing distribution pipeline platform and jacking header along the centerline of 
Bagdad’s Upper Mammoth TSF. The platform supports 85 on-dam cyclones used to separate 
the material into coarse and finer fractions, where the coarse fraction is used to build a free 
draining embankment for the tailings storage facility.
ENVIRONMENT
29
2018 WTSD REPORT
Active TSFs are continually monitored for embankment dam structural stability and 
environmental aspects such as dust generation potential. Above, buttress construction 
provides additional stability at the Sierrita TSF near Green Valley, Arizona. 
We also implement the core elements from International 
Council on Mining and Metals Position Statement on 
Preventing Catastrophic Failure of Tailings Storage Facilities 
published in December 2016: accountability, responsibility 
and competency; planning and resourcing; risk management; 
change management; emergency preparedness and response; 
and review and assurance.
We have a strong commitment from our Board of Directors 
and executive management team to provide the necessary 
resources to protect safety. While we believe our Tailings 
Management and Stewardship Program is robust and mitigates 
risks, we continue to identify opportunities for continuous 
improvement in all aspects of our Program. Our corporate 
culture is to communicate critical information upward so that 
important matters are identified, evaluated and acted upon.
Multi-Tiered Oversight
Our tailings stewardship team, comprising third-party 
engineers and internal experts, physically inspects all 
of our tailings facilities, reviews associated documents 
and monitoring data to identify potentially significant 
deficiencies, and recommends corrective actions. In 
addition, we have commissioned Technical Review Boards 
(generally four-person panels comprising internationally 
known experts, typically PhDs with more than 30 years of 
experience in their respective areas of specialization). These 
boards provide independent opinions and guidance on the 
physical integrity, safety and performance of our tailings 
storage facilities and associated management systems. 
Each Technical Review Board for operating sites has direct 
access to the Chief Operating Officer and direct access to 
the Vice President-Environmental Services and Sustainable 
Development for inactive/legacy sites, and each member has 
a responsibility to report any concerns not being adequately 
addressed by line management.
Our tailings stewardship team has inspected all active 
tailings storage facilities within the past 12 months and 
has visited almost all facilities within the past three years. 
Members of our Technical Review Boards (TRBs) visit our 
active and select inactive tailings storage facilities at least 
every four years and meet with our internal teams and 
Engineers of Record (EoRs) periodically to review our follow-
up activities to their previous recommendations. We track 
recommended actions from inception to completion.
Remediating Findings/Improving Practices
Since the Mount Polley tailings dam failure in 2014 and 
the Samarco tailings dam failure in 2015, our TRBs have 
recommended that our sites and EoRs investigate and 
identify site conditions that could create a potential failure. 
The company then deploys resources to remediate findings. 
For example, in 2018, we acted on the recommendations 
of TRBs and, out of an abundance of caution, we initiated 
construction on tailings dam buttress projects at both Sierrita 
and Henderson.
Recent Program Enhancements 
During 2018, we have: 
•	
Completed our Tailings Management System Guide 
umbrella document that ties together our numerous 
tailings management and stewardship programs and 
procedures, documentation, and personnel roles and 
responsibilities. 
•	
Continued development of the risk-informed decision-
making process and screening design criteria and 
completed a gap analysis on available information for all 
TSFs, particularly for inactive and closed TSFs that were 
previously considered lower priority. 
•	
Completed an emergency action plan tabletop exercise 
with internal technical and crisis management personnel 
for one site and established plans for three additional sites’ 
tabletops in 2019. 
•	
Continued to enhance surveillance and monitoring tools 
such as developing a mobile data acquisition system tool 
for field inspections and other key performance indicator 
data collection activities. 
•	
Continued to improve interpretation and utilization of InSAR 
data as well as enhance audits of our automated instrument 
data acquisition, visualization and alarming system. 
•	
Continued to improve water balance modeling by 
incorporating updated regional extreme precipitation 
studies, analyzing evaporation rate data from various 
remote sensing techniques and incorporating methods to 
better quantify uncertainty in the models. 
30
•	
Delivered three weeks of high quality technical training 
courses and workshops for tailings engineers on 
geotechnical design of levees, tailings deposition modeling, 
tailings material characterization and laboratory visits, 
critical state soil mechanics, good practice examples for 
site engineer functions, and automated data acquisition 
system maintenance. There was regular information 
sharing between corporate and site tailings engineers on 
good practices and implementation of new initiatives. 
Controlled Riverine Tailings Management 
PTFI’s controlled riverine tailings management system is 
implemented based on methods approved and permitted 
by the Government of Indonesia. The site-specific system, 
chosen after extensive evaluations of over a dozen 
alternatives, uses an unnavigable river to transport tailings 
out of the highlands (from approximately 3,000 meters 
elevation) to an engineered deposition area in the lowlands 
referred to as the ModADA. The river is not used for potable 
water, agriculture, fishing or other domestic or commercial 
uses, nor was it used for these purposes before operations 
began. Levees have been and continue to be constructed to 
laterally contain the footprint of the tailings and natural 
sediment within the ModADA while quantities of finer 
tailings and other sediments deposit in the estuary and the 
sea. Independent, environmental management expert audits 
have reaffirmed the controlled riverine tailings management 
system is the best site-specific management alternative 
considering the topographical, seismic and geotechnical, 
geological, climatological and environmental conditions of 
the project area. If any conventional tailings system had been 
selected and implemented, it likely would have structurally 
failed by now. 
In addition to internal and external audits and assessments, 
PTFI uses the ModADA Management Board (MMB) for 
oversight of the tailings system. The MMB is a multi-
disciplinary expert panel that meets on site to assess system 
performance and risks associated with the ModADA and 
coastal zone area. The MMB focuses on the structural 
integrity of the levees and the geochemical stability of 
the deposition area as well as associated stakeholder 
engagement. The MMB provides recommendations to PTFI 
leadership and engineering teams on priority activities and 
tracks progress on detailed recommendations. 
PTFI’s environmental impacts are well documented, 
monitored and managed and have been subject to the 
Government of Indonesia’s regulatory oversight, including 
the approval of the AMDAL for PTFI operations and the 
approval of annual work plans. Impacts of the system, 
including increases in sedimentation, were predicted in 
numerous studies and are consistent with the design and 
operation of the chosen alternative. Monitoring programs 
have established, except for elevation changes, the 
environmental impacts of tailings deposition are reversible 
at the end of mine life.
Data from biological sampling continues to demonstrate that 
the estuaries downstream of the tailings deposition area are 
functioning ecosystems, based on both the number of species 
and the number of specimens collected of nektonic, or free-
swimming, organisms such as fish and shrimp. Large-scale 
demonstration reclamation projects show that several land 
use options are possible after final closure of the deposition 
area. When mining is completed, this area can be reclaimed 
with natural vegetation or used for agriculture, forestry, 
grazing of livestock and aquaculture among other options, 
depending on stakeholder ambitions.
Large-scale demonstration projects confirm that multiple land use options are viable after 
final closure of the PTFI tailings deposition area. The area can be reclaimed with natural 
vegetation or used for agriculture, forestry, livestock grazing and aquaculture.
We reclaim inactive TSFs by regrading slopes, conveying and diverting storm water, capping 
with soil cover, and reseeding with native grasses and shrubs. Above are Tyrone TSFs in 
New Mexico after completing reclamation.
ENVIRONMENT
31
2018 WTSD REPORT
BIODIVERSITY
We are committed to minimizing the impacts of our 
operations on biodiversity and ecosystem services while 
promoting opportunities to conserve and enhance resources 
in the areas in which we operate.
Biodiversity considerations are integrated into our EMS, 
which enable us to understand potential impacts of our 
operations, to minimize adverse impacts to the maximum 
extent practicable and to seek opportunities to promote 
conservation outcomes throughout all phases of a project. As 
a member of the ICMM, we are addressing the commitments 
within its Mining and Protected Areas Position Statement, 
including not mining or exploring in World Heritage sites. 
We are also developing guidance for our sites to address the 
ICMM Performance Expectation regarding implementation of 
the mitigation hierarchy with the ambition of no net loss.
Our commitment to biodiversity conservation is further 
supported by the implementation of wildlife protection 
plans at North American operations. These plans present 
biodiversity baseline conditions, assess potential wildlife 
risks associated with our operations and identify protection 
measures. They also incorporate an adaptive management 
approach to promote continual improvement in wildlife 
protection and allow us to effectively address new risks 
arising from operational and ecological changes. Based 
upon the results of the wildlife risk assessment processes, 
several operations have also adopted avian protection 
plans to minimize potential risks to migratory birds. At 
international operations, we apply similar biodiversity action 
plans to address risks to important species while promoting 
conservation opportunities.
In 2018, we continued long-term programs to promote the 
conservation of imperiled species. Examples include:
•	
Tyrone, Morenci and Miami operations implemented 
management plans developed in consultation with the 
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to support conservation of 
several endangered species such as the spikedace, loach 
minnow, yellow-billed cuckoo and southwestern 
willow flycatcher. 
•	
Henderson operations continued its partnership with 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife to support boreal toad 
conservation and documented successful reproduction on 
mine property for the third consecutive year. 
•	
Sierrita operations voluntarily relocated over 200 
endangered Pima pineapple cactus from the mine site 
to a company-owned property that is protected under a 
conservation easement. 
•	
Morenci operations supported Arizona Department of 
Game and Fish efforts to establish new bighorn sheep 
populations by capturing bighorn sheep from the mine site 
and relocating them to new habitats.
•	
Cerro Verde operations continued conservation programs 
for several species such as the endangered guanaco and 
Peruvian long-snouted bat.
•	
El Abra operations conducted programs benefiting 
regionally endemic vegetation and wildlife at the Salar de 
Ascotán wetlands area.
Due to its location in one of the world’s richest biodiversity 
regions, the PTFI project area contains considerable 
biodiversity. PTFI conducts ongoing biodiversity inventories 
to inform its biodiversity management program, including 
approaches for in situ conservation of biodiversity; the long-
term monitoring of mine related impacts on biodiversity; and 
the rehabilitation and restoration of disturbed areas using 
principles of restoration ecology. Through its Biodiversity 
Action Plans, PTFI aims to (1) recognize the important role that 
biodiversity plays in sustainable development, (2) establish a 
Morenci partnered with multiple stakeholders to install a bat-friendly gate at the Eagle 
Creek bat cave. Since its installment in 2010, the resident Mexican free-tailed bat population 
has grown from approximately 30,000 to 1.5 million individuals.
Freeport-McMoRan’s Pollinator Conservation Initiative creates habitats vital to global 
ecosystems. Today, 14 operations are implementing pollinator conservation projects in 
collaboration with local stakeholders. 
32
strong partnership with multiple stakeholder groups involved 
in conservation and natural resource management, including 
local governments and citizens, (3) effectively manage local 
biodiversity for the region, and (4) provide biodiversity 
education, research and information opportunities. 
Flora and fauna from Papua often become the object of illegal 
trade. Countering illegal wildlife trade is a priority for Papua’s 
natural resource agencies and part of PTFI’s commitment to 
biodiversity conservation in Papua. PTFI cooperates with the 
Indonesia Animal Rescue Center, Forest Protection & Nature 
Conservation, Forestry Department, Lorentz National Park 
Center and Wasur National Park Center to repatriate protected 
animals to their habitats. Please see our website for more 
details on PTFI’s expansive biodiversity programs.
While our biodiversity projects vary in scope and size, each 
provides an opportunity to benefit ecosystems and the 
communities where we operate. Most biodiversity projects 
involve productive collaborations with stakeholders such 
as government agencies and NGOs, and many incorporate 
formal outreach and STEM education opportunities. For 
example, staff across our North American sites reached over 
2,000 students and community members through pollinator-
focused education and outreach activities including Earth 
Day celebrations, pollinator education workshops and hands-
on planting events in the field. In partnership with Bat 
Conservation International, Wildlife Habitat Council (WHC) 
and other NGOs, we participated in an initiative to protect 
migratory, nectar-feeding bat species near its operations in 
southeastern Arizona. During 2018, company staff engaged 
over 120 employee and community volunteers to propagate 
and plant native agave species that serve as the bats’ primary 
food source. The Arizona Mining Association recognized 
Morenci’s long-standing commitment and extensive efforts 
around bat conservation by awarding it the 2018 Sustainability, 
Preservation and Diversity in the Environment award. 
Freeport-McMoRan participates in the WHC certification 
program, which formally recognizes meaningful biodiversity 
conservation and environmental education and community 
outreach programs. In 2018, both Chino and Sierrita became 
WHC certified bringing our total certifications to 18 operating 
sites and company facilities. Fifteen sites received gold-tier 
certification, and three received silver-tier certification 
through the WHC Conservation Certification process. In 2018, 
Henderson won WHC’s Invasive Species Management Award 
for its efforts to remove invasive species and enhanced native 
habitat while Morenci received the Mammals Project Award 
for its Rocky Mountain bighorn sheep management activities. 
PTFI has constructed multiple environmental education facilities within its tailings reclamation 
and demonstration area, including a large butterfly sanctuary. Multiple important species are 
nurtured and protected from predators before their release into the surrounding habitats of 
the lowlands. 
The first comprehensive Atlas of Nesting Birds of Chile was facilitated by El Abra and ROC 
(Red de Observadores de aves y vida Silvestre de Chile), a non-profit network of bird 
observers. The three-year project involved 1,800 volunteer bird watchers who spotted over 
330 species.
ENVIRONMENT
2018 WINNING BIODIVERSITY PHOTOS 
Since 2011, Freeport-McMoRan 
employees have participated in the 
company’s annual biodiversity photo 
contest. Each year approximately 400 
photos are submitted by employees, 
and the contest successfully engages 
our workforce on biodiversity 
appreciation and promotes habitats 
at our worldwide operations. 
Winning photos from the popular 
contest are featured in the Wildlife 
Habitat Council’s Corporate Homes 
for Wildlife calendar, which is 
distributed internationally. The 
calendar showcases efforts by member 
companies to enhance and conserve 
wildlife habitat on corporate lands. 
Winning photos selected by the 
company’s Biodiversity Task Force are 
presented on this page.
33
2018 WTSD REPORT
2018 Biodiversity Photo Contest Co-Winner: Bobbie by Jeff Ladderud, Research Engineer – Oro Valley Office
Pictured: A bobcat in the wash near the Oro Valley offices in Arizona.
2018 Biodiversity Photo Contest Co-Winner: Mountain Goat by Chris Schmitz, Chief Mine Engineer-Climax
Pictured: A mountain goat attracted by salt on a hillside at Climax operations with Mount Arkansas in the background.
PHOTO CONTEST
34
2018 RUNNERS-UP 
BIODIVERSITY PHOTOS
(left to right)
• Red-collared Myzomela (PTFI)
• Black-chinned Hummingbird (Bagdad)
• Gila Monster (Bagdad)
• Red Kite (Atlantic Copper) 
• Buff-banded Rail (PTFI)
• Common Porcupine (Morenci) 
• Andean Fox (El Abra)
• Common Green Birdwing (PTFI)
• Rocky Mountain Elk (Climax) 
• Dark Sheath-tailed Bats (PTFI)
• Greater Flamingo (Atlantic Copper)
PHOTO CONTEST
a. TRIR = [(Fatalities + Lost Time Incidents + Restricted Duty Incidents + Medical Treatment) x 200,000] / Total Hours Worked.
b. Excludes PTFI where approximately 35 reportable spills occurred in 2017 and 70 in 2018, including a high percentage from pipeline sabotage.
c. Penalties paid were from NOVs at Cerro Verde in 2006 and 2008.
d. Please see detailed information in our WTSD reports published on fcx.com/sustainabililty.
Note: As a result of methodology changes or corrections, prior year data may be updated. Data presentation and comparisons may not meet 
the direct needs of all stakeholders, and we encourage users of this information to contact our Sustainable Development Department at 
sustainability@fmi.com with inquiries.
35
2018 WTSD REPORT
TREND DATA
	
 2014	
2015	
 2016	
 2017	
 2018
WORKFORCE
Employees 	
35,000	
34,500	
30,000	
25,200	
26,800
Contractors 	
46,300	
37,500	
29,100	
28,000	
38,800
Percent Employees Under Collective Bargaining Agreements	
48%	
48%	
47%	
39%	
37%
HEALTH AND SAFETY
Workforce Fatalities 	
7	
3	
6	
5	
0
Total Recordable Incident Ratea	
0.56	
0.56	
0.64	
0.76	
0.71
Occupational Illness Cases	
46	
43	
26	
38	
42
ENVIRONMENT
Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions (million metric tons)	
5.2	
6.0	
5.5	
4.5	
5.2
Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions (million metric tons)	
4.3	
4.6	
4.9	
3.6	
3.2
Total Utilized Water (million cubic meters)	
1,326	
1,459	
1,738	
1,560	
1,543
Percent Recycled Water	
79%	
80%	
81%	
82%	
81%
Reportable spills or releases of hazardous 
or toxic chemicals	
14	
13	
23	
11b	
15b
Notices of Violations related to permit exceedances, 
spills, releases or other compliance matters	
11	
2	
5	
0	
13
Environmental Penalties ($ thousands)	
$ 
124	
$ 
43	
$ 
0	
$ 
317c	
$ 
 
0
SOCIAL
Community Investments ($ millions)	
$ 
198	
$ 
165	
$ 
142	
$ 
153	
$ 
155 
Cash Payments to Governmentsd ($ millions)	
$ 3,355	
$ 1,993	
$ 1,428	
$ 1,346	
$ 2,409 
Direct Economic Contributionsd ($ millions)	
$ 17,030	
$ 14,475	
$ 13,414	
$ 12,158	
$14,663
