OUR APPROACH
Freeport is a leading responsible copper producer — supplying nearly 9.5% of the world’s mined copper. As the world 
transitions to a low-carbon economy, demand for copper is expected to increase. We believe increased demand 
should be met responsibly. That is why our environmental, social and governance (ESG) commitments seek to 
support and enhance responsible production practices at our sites around the world. 
Over the course of 2021 and continuing into 2022, we have evolved our sustainability strategy, formalized its 
integration throughout the company and clarified our ambition: Accelerate the Future, Responsibly. 
Our ambition serves as a north star, guiding us to responsibly deliver on our company’s business strategy — being 
Foremost in Copper. It informs our stakeholders what we stand for and is a frame that guides our decisions. 
Our ambition recognizes the critical role our products play in global progress — including the low-carbon energy 
transition — and underlies our commitment to continue to advance the responsible production of our products. We 
seek not only to responsibly accelerate the future of copper and responsible mining practices, but we also strive to 
enhance the future for all of our stakeholders, which is critical to delivering and maintaining shared value.
Accelerating a responsible future means doing more good for our stakeholders and the planet — not just less harm. 
We plan to continue to act on the critical social and environmental issues facing our business and our stakeholders. 
Accelerating the Future, Responsibly aligns to our core values and supports our company culture, helping to cultivate 
an ethical and engaged workforce capable of innovating the future of mining and leading our company and industry into a 
more sustainable and responsible era of mining.  
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 7
 8
Our Strategy 
Our sustainability strategy is designed to meet our ambition and achieve 
enduring progress and is comprised of four components, which we outline in 
greater detail on the following pages:  
	
OUR BELIEFS
The ideologies that shape our focus and drive action against our 
most important priorities. 
	
OUR SUSTAINABILITY PILLARS
The three priority focus areas that help build a more sustainable 
future for our business and stakeholders.
	
OUR CRITICAL ENABLERS
The capabilities that support our pillars and create the momentum 
needed to continuously evolve and deliver on our commitments now 
and in the future.
	
OUR VALUES
The bedrock of our culture and the foundation upon which all our 
commitments, including our ESG efforts, are built. 
1
2
3
4
Every element of our sustainability 
strategy is interconnected: each 
component is powered by another, 
and, in turn, drives the next. 
Through this continuously evolving 
and interconnected model, we work 
to create sustained value for all of 
our stakeholders, while staying 
true to our ambition and delivering 
on our business strategy of being 
Foremost in Responsible Copper.
Climax molybdenum mine, Colorado.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 9
OUR SUSTAINABILITY PILLARS
Our strategy also seeks to create greater clarity on the outcomes we are 
working to achieve across our three sustainability pillars: 
▸	 Robust Governance
Good governance relies upon dedicated leadership that integrates 
ESG into everyday operations and business decisions through 
effective internal structures and processes. We strive to embed 
a holistic ESG approach into decision making by leveraging our 
internal culture and regulatory and technical systems and expertise.
▸	 Empowered People & Resilient Communities
People are at the core of our business. We are committed to 
supporting the health, safety and well-being of our people, which 
includes our workforce, our host communities and Indigenous 
neighbors. We seek to do this in a manner that increases resiliency 
and empowers people to thrive sustainably in the long term.  
▸	 Thriving Environments
Mining impacts the natural environment. We work to conduct our 
operations with minimal adverse impacts on the environment, 
and we support the protection of ecosystems through responsible 
environmental stewardship. This commitment is embedded in our 
management systems and approach to continuous improvement.
1
2
OUR BELIEFS
▸	 Increased global demand for copper should be met responsibly. 
We can, and we must, manage our impacts and positively contribute 
within and beyond our operational boundaries 
as we work to meet the world’s needs for our products. 
▸	 The challenges of tomorrow demand innovation. The future of 
mining and responsible production require ingenuity and evolution 
across the value chain. We embrace this fully.
▸	 Rising ESG expectations are an opportunity to create greater 
value. We take seriously our commitments to our shareholders and 
other stakeholders, and acknowledge the critical link between our 
sustainability performance and the trust and goodwill we earn from 
others. Our ESG commitments challenge us to continually improve 
and become a better and more productive company.
▸	 Resilience and adaptability are essential characteristics and 
priorities for any organization striving to achieve enduring ESG 
progress. Meeting the world’s changing needs requires a collaborative 
culture, the capabilities to evolve, people empowered to innovate and 
challenge the status quo, and the financial strength necessary to chart 
new paths and weather any storm. Not only do we apply this internally, 
but we use the same lens in our work with external stakeholders, 
including communities and Indigenous Peoples.
▸	 Transparency and accountability are crucial to building and 
maintaining trust. Trust takes time. It also takes transparency, 
authenticity and a two-way dialogue. We are committed to openly 
engaging with and listening to our stakeholders. We are also 
committed to transparently sharing our progress and to being held 
accountable for our commitments.   
 10
OUR VALUES:  SAFETY  |  RESPECT  |  INTEGRITY  |  EXCELLENCE  |  COMMITMENT
CRITICAL ENABLERS
HEALTHY & 
ENGAGED 
WORKFORCE
RESPONSIBLE
 VALUE CHAINS
COLLABORATIVE 
PARTNERSHIPS
OPERATIONAL 
EXCELLENCE
Thriving 
Environments
Empowered People + 
Resilient Communities
Robust 
Governance
SUSTAINABILITY PILLARS
OUR CRITICAL ENABLERS
We seek to deliver our sustainability strategy through four critical enablers:
▸	 Healthy, Engaged Workforce
Empower our people to deliver a sustainable and innovative mining 
future. We support our people to work safely, to acquire new skills, 
learn and embrace new technologies, and to provide opportunities for 
growth and development within an inclusive environment.
▸	 Operational Excellence
Set the standard for responsible copper and molybdenum production. 
Continuous improvement enables us to drive the innovation needed 
to embrace new approaches, ideas and technologies that will help us 
exceed future operational and ESG expectations while consistently 
delivering stakeholder value. 
▸	 Collaborative Partnerships
Earn and maintain trust with communities and stakeholders. 
We proactively and collaboratively engage our host communities, 
including Indigenous Peoples, to define and build a common vision for 
creating shared value. 
▸	 Responsible Value Chains
Responsibly deliver our products to the global economy. 
We seek to embed sustainability, integrity and compliance across our 
value chain – both upstream and downstream – to ensure copper and 
molybdenum are produced and used responsibly.
3
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 11
4
OUR VALUES
Our culture is the bedrock of Freeport’s sustainability strategy, aligning our 
core company values to our work. Our core values direct the decisions we 
make as a company and as individual employees. These values represent 
who we are and how we work — everyone, everywhere, every day. 
▸	 Safety
We put safety first — for ourselves, our co-workers and our 
communities — by actively promoting safe practices and health and 
wellness. No job is so important and no schedule so urgent that time 
cannot be taken to plan and perform work in a safe manner. 
▸	 Respect
We treat each other and our stakeholders with respect. We value the 
diversity, ideas, perspectives and experiences of our employees and 
our stakeholders. 
▸	 Integrity
We are honest, transparent and responsible, and we do what we say 
we will do. 
▸	 Excellence
We pursue excellence in our work by taking pride in what we do 
and always doing our best. We collaborate to create and implement 
innovative ideas and to develop solutions to issues and concerns. 
▸	 Commitment
We are committed to contributing to the long-term sustainability of 
the environment and communities where we work. We hold ourselves 
accountable for our environmental and social performance.
Grasberg minerals district, Indonesia.
 12
Ambitions & Performance Targets
As part of the update to our sustainability strategy, in late 2021 and early 2022, we continued to refine our key focus areas, following the results of our materiality 
assessment and stakeholder engagement, by establishing clear ambitions for each focus area, and updating and defining performance targets. Our ambitions and 
performance targets are outlined in the tables below. Read more about our 2021 performance in each of these critical areas in the following sections of this report.
ROBUST GOVERNANCE
FOCUS AREA
AMBITION
PERFORMANCE TARGET
2021 PERFORMANCE UPDATE
STATUS
Human Rights
We are an enabling partner for the respect and 
promotion of human rights within our own operations 
and across our value chain
Incur zero gross human rights1  violations at our 
operations by employees or contractors (annual)
Achieved in 2021
Complete Human Rights Impact Assessment at Arizona 
sites in 2022
Progressed interview phase in 2021
Complete Human Rights Impact Assessment at PT-FI 
in 2023
Planning stage initiated  
Responsible 
Supply Chains
We work with our supply chain and business partners 
to manage and promote responsible and sustainable 
practices
Complete supplier sustainability prioritization in 2022
Prioritization process initiated during 2021
Complete engagement process for top priority 
categories in 2023
N/A - New target established in 2022
Ethics & 
Compliance
N/A²
Comprehensive training on Principles of Business 
Conduct (PBC), including annual certification of 
management-level employees (annual)
In 2021, 100% of employees were trained, including 
a 100% certification rate of management-level 
employees
Train 90% of selected employees on anti-corruption laws, 
regulations and company policies and procedures (annual)
In 2021, 100% of the employees selected to 
participate in the online training completed the course
 
EMPOWERED PEOPLE & RESILIENT COMMUNITIES 
FOCUS AREA
AMBITION
PERFORMANCE TARGET
2021 PERFORMANCE UPDATE
STATUS
Health & Safety
We put safety first ­
— for ourselves, for each other and 
for our communities ­
— by championing a culture of 
safety, health and well-being wherever we do business
Incur zero workforce fatalities (employees + contractors) 
(annual) 
In 2021, we regret to report 2 work-related fatalities
2021 and 2022 Target of Total Recordable Incident 
Rate (TRIR³) of 0.69
2022 Target: 0.69 TRIR
At 0.70 for 2021, we were close to meeting our 0.69 
TRIR³  target for the year and we continue to strive to 
improve
Workforce
Our culture is safety-focused, respectful and 
inclusive in order to empower our workforce to 
innovate, adapt and succeed
Increase the percentage of women employees, 
including representation in managerial roles, to 15%
At year-end, women represented 13.4% of our 
global employee population, 21.2% of our executive 
management team and 12.3% of other managerial roles 
Continue to assess and enhance equitable pay practices 
and integrate into annual compensation review
In 2021, we advanced our gender pay ratio analysis 
and living wage analysis 
Communities 
& Indigenous 
Peoples
We work in partnership with our host communities 
and Indigenous Peoples to earn and maintain their 
trust and to contribute to long-term shared value and 
resilience
2021 Target: $157 million in community investments 
2022 Target: $171 million in community investments4
Invested approximately $164 million in community 
programs globally in 2021 
 
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 13
THRIVING ENVIRONMENTS
FOCUS AREA
AMBITION
PERFORMANCE TARGET
2021 PERFORMANCE UPDATE
STATUS
Climate
We aspire to participate in – and positively contribute to – a 
2050 net zero economy 
Reduce GHG emissions intensity by 30% per metric ton 
of payable copper at PT-FI by 2030 (vs. 2018 baseline)
Achieved 22% intensity reduction on 2018 
baseline in 2021
Reduce GHG emissions intensity by 15% per metric ton 
of copper cathode in the Americas by 2030 (vs. 2018 
baseline)
Achieved 3.7% intensity reduction on 2018 
baseline in 2021
Develop GHG emissions reduction targets for 
molybdenum sites and Atlantic Copper Smelter and 
Refinery in 2022
Target development is in process
Significantly advance Science Based Targets initiative 
process for 2030 targets in 2022 
Signed SBTi letter of commitment
Water 
Stewardship
As responsible water stewards, we focus on minimizing our 
impacts on shared resources, while supporting the long-term 
resilience of our operations, host communities and the 
environment
Conduct site-based review of water supply sources 
and use and improve water models to support target 
setting by end of 2023
N/A - New target established in 2022
Biodiversity & 
Land Use
We aim to avoid or minimize impacts from our operations 
on biodiversity, while contributing to the conservation of 
biodiversity beyond our boundaries
Formalize and disclose biodiversity management 
plans at significant sites by the end of 2023 
N/A - New target established in 2022
Tailings 
Management
We strive to continuously manage, enhance and innovate 
our tailings systems in a manner that minimizes impacts to 
stakeholders and the environment
Implement the Global Tailings Standard at tailings 
facilities with “extreme” or “very high” potential 
consequences by August 2023
In 2021, continued to advance conformance 
with the Tailings Standard at our Americas 
tailings storage facilities (TSFs) 
Environmental 
Compliance
N/A²
Incur zero significant environmental events5 (annual)
Achieved in 2021
Incur zero penalties in amounts exceeding $100,000 
(annual)
Achieved in 2021
Achieved
On track / In process
Missed / Not started
1	 Gross human rights violation – There is no uniform definition under international law; however, the United Nations Office of the High Commissioner report The Corporate Responsibility to Respect Human Rights – An Interpretive Guide, 
provides guidance on identifying such types of violations.
2	 Ambition statements were developed for the eight strategic focus areas determined in our materiality assessment and follow-on sustainability strategy update. Ambition statements were not developed for compliance obligations, which 
continue to be critically important to our business.
3	 TRIR = [(Fatalities + Lost-Time Incidents + Restricted Duty Incidents + Medical Treatment) x 200,000] / Total Hours Worked. Following the filing of FCX’s 2021 Form 10-K, FCX learned of a mischaracterized incident which resulted in an 
adjustment to FCX’s 2021 company-wide TRIR from 0.69 to 0.70.
4	 Annual community investment target determined by 1% of the average of the previous 3 years’ annual mining operations revenues.
5	 Significant environmental event is defined as a consequence rating of 3 or higher on our risk matrix.
Our Strategy in Action: Responsible Production
Consistently executing our sustainability strategy means integrating 
sustainability into everything we do and enhancing our focus on responsible 
production. We are proud to play a leading role in setting the industry 
benchmark for responsible copper production by collaborating with 
stakeholders to innovate and drive change. 
As the world transitions to a lower-carbon economy, demand for copper 
is expected to increase and could eventually outpace supply. As we seek 
to meet the increasing demand for copper, our responsible production 
framework supports our efforts to ensure that our increased production is 
achieved responsibly and sustainably.
We drive responsible production practices throughout our operations 
by identifying the commitments that will move the industry forward and 
meaningfully advance our operations and our supply chains, including 
our strategic focus areas and related ambitions and performance targets, 
as well as commitments such as the UNGPs, the VPs and Task Force on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). 
Being a responsible producer also means purposefully working toward 
achieving the SDGs within our communities and value chain. We work globally 
to translate these commitments to our business through the development of 
common industry frameworks. 
Defining and implementing responsible production at Freeport is an iterative 
process with continuous improvement at its core. The graphic below provides 
a visual depiction of this process. Ongoing stakeholder engagement is 
fundamental to informing our policies and processes as well as the voluntary 
commitments to which we subscribe. Collectively these inputs inform our 
definition of responsible production and help us define our strategic focus 
areas and performance targets. We then integrate these commitments, 
policies and practices into our risk register process, which drives our actions. 
Regular measurement and reporting support our understanding of our current 
performance, including any gaps, and the actions we need to take to improve. 
Third-party validation of the implementation of our commitments at our 
operating sites and at the corporate level provides validation of our actions. At 
the foundation of this iterative process is robust governance which is critical to 
embedding responsible production across the business.
GOVERNANCE
VALIDATION
POLICIES 
& PRACTICES
STAKEHOLDER 
ENGAGEMENT
VOLUNTARY 
COMMITMENTS
RISK REGISTER
ACTIONS
MEASURE 
& REPORT
 18
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 19
THE COPPER MARK
The Copper Mark is a comprehensive assurance framework that promotes 
responsible production practices. It is the first and only framework developed 
specifically for the copper industry. Since 2019, the Copper Mark has been 
an independent not-for-profit entity and has committed to including the 
perspectives of its impacted stakeholders in its governance structure. The 
Copper Mark was built on a genuine commitment from the copper industry to 
ensure and advance responsible production practices globally.
Producers participating in the Copper Mark are committed to adhering 
to internationally recognized responsible operating practices and 
specifically to a detailed framework covering 32 issues across five 
ESG categories developed by the Responsible Minerals Initiative’s Risk 
Readiness Assessment. Requirements of the Copper Mark include third-
party assurance of performance at each site that commits to revalidation 
every three years. The Copper Mark is currently evaluating extension of its 
framework to other base metals; Freeport supports this effort.
Freeport has played a leading role in the development of the Copper Mark 
by actively participating in the organization’s multi-stakeholder processes 
to further develop and work toward achieving its short- and long-term goals 
for growth. This includes key roles in the Advisory Council, Due Diligence 
Working Group, Technical Working Group and Transparency Working Group. 
Through these efforts, we encourage our stakeholders, peers, customers 
and downstream users to join, collaborate and encourage uptake of the 
Copper Mark globally, while contributing to the strengthening of the 
framework over time. 
In 2020, Freeport committed to achieving the Copper Mark at all of its 
copper producing sites. To date, 9 of our sites have received the Copper 
Mark, two additional sites (Safford and Sierrita) have signed letters of 
commitment and we plan to commence the process at PT-FI later this year. 
Learn more about our Copper Mark commitment on our website and view our 
site-level Copper Mark assessment reports at coppermark.org.
FCX COPPER MARK STATUS BY SITE
AWARDED
Atlantic Copper smelter & refinery (Spain)
Bagdad mine (AZ)
Cerro Verde mine (Peru)
Chino mine (NM)
El Abra mine (Chile)
El Paso refinery (TX) 
Miami mine & smelter (AZ)
Morenci mine (AZ)
Tyrone mine (NM)
LETTER OF COMMITMENT
Safford mine (AZ) 
Sierrita mine (AZ)
PLANNED
PT-FI mine (Indonesia)
Note: Copper Mark status as of 4/21/2022
32 ISSUES ACROSS 5 ESG CATEGORIES
GOVERNANCE
LABOR RIGHTS
ENVIRONMENT
COMMUNITY
HUMAN RIGHTS
1  Legal Compliance
5  Child Labor
14  Environmental Risk 
Management
23  Community Health & 
Safety
26  Human Rights
2  Business Integrity
6  Forced Labor
15  Greenhouse Gas (GHG) 
Emissions
24  Community Development
27  Security & Human Rights
3  Stakeholder Engagement
7  Freedom of Association 
& Collective Bargaining
16  Energy Consumption
25  Artisanal & Small-scale 
Mining
28  Indigenous Peoples' 
Rights
4  Business Relationships
8  Discrimination
17  Freshwater Management 
& Conservation
29  Land Acquisition & 
Resettlement
9  Gender Equality
18  Waste Management
30  Cultural Heritage
10  Working Hours
19  Tailings Management
31  Due Diligence in Mineral 
Supply Chains
11  Remuneration
20  Pollution
32  Transparency & 
Disclosure
12  Occupational Health
21  Biodiversity & Protected 
Areas
13  Employee Grievance 
Mechanism
22  Mine Closure & 
Reclamation
 20
ICMM PERFORMANCE EXPECTATIONS
ICMM is an organization dedicated to a safe, fair and 
sustainable mining and metals industry. As a founding 
member, Freeport has been a leader for over 20 years, and 
our Chairman and CEO currently serves as Chair of ICMM’s CEO Council. 
In 2020, ICMM membership approved and published 38 performance 
expectations, designed to enhance the long-held 10 Mining Principles for 
sustainable development. These expectations, along with topic specific 
Position Statements and assurance and validation requirements, define 
ICMM’s membership commitments. The 38 performance expectations 
must be validated by a third-party at the site level with annual activities 
published, including how expectations will be met. In October of 2021, 
ICMM members signed the ICMM Climate Change Statement where they 
committed to a goal of net zero Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 2050 or 
sooner in line with the ambitions of the Paris Agreement. Freeport aspires 
to participate in ­
— and positively contribute to — a 2050 net zero economy. 
RISK MANAGEMENT
We implement several processes to identify and assess ESG-related risks, 
including our sustainability risk register process, our Enterprise Risk 
Management (ERM) program, and our global climate scenario analyses, the 
first of which was completed in 2021. 
Risk Register
To translate our responsible production commitments to our everyday work, 
we use our sustainability risk register process (risk register) to identify, 
prioritize, manage and track sustainability risks and actions at the corporate- 
and site-level. Defined in a global standard operating procedure, the process 
uses a 4 x 4 assessment matrix to classify risks by both their likelihood and 
consequence, based on customized impact definitions by functional area to 
drive appropriate action. All risks require annual monitoring, and detailed 
action plans are prepared for those rated as critical. 
Sites use the risk register to identify risks and opportunities related to 
our commitments in relation to their operation and stakeholders. The risk 
register then prioritizes the most significant risks that could have negative 
consequences to our business and our stakeholders in areas such as health and 
safety, human rights, environmental management, community development 
and economic impacts. Once prioritized, action plans are developed for risk 
management. The register and these plans serve as the focal point of internal 
and external assurance at both the corporate level and operating sites.
The risks included in the risk register are mapped to our external 
commitments, including all 38 ICMM Performance Expectations and the 
Copper Mark’s 32 ESG requirements. Our risk register supports our teams 
to identify and prioritize the most significant risks to our business and our 
stakeholders across sustainability areas. It also ultimately elevates the 
most meaningful actions. We work collaboratively to implement our various 
commitments, and our risk register process allows site-level management 
teams to tailor their site-specific priorities while helping to support globally 
consistent implementation. 
Enterprise Risk Management 
Our ERM program seeks to identify and track risks and opportunities that 
could impact our business-wide strategic objectives. Our ERM committee, 
comprised of senior executives with responsibility across operations and 
core business functions, is responsible for providing input and oversight 
to the ERM framework. The program focuses on current and emerging 
issues, both within and outside our operational boundaries, which could 
jeopardize or enhance our strategic position. Our ERM program seeks to 
link our global operations and supporting business functions in order to 
(1) identify enterprise risks and opportunities, (2) analyze and prioritize 
risks (including vulnerability, impact and root causes), (3) review risk 
control environments and determine additional management actions, and 
(4) monitor and periodically report progress. We are currently working to 
integrate our climate change related physical and transition risks to the 
business into this process.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 21
INTEGRATING RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTION INTO GROWTH PROJECTS 
As the world transitions to a lower-carbon economy, demand for copper 
is expected to increase. We seek to support this increased global demand, 
responsibly. We have an internal risk review process to specifically consider 
sustainability issues during the evaluation, and implementation of, potential 
expansion and development projects.
Similar to our risk register process for our operating sites, our project 
development sustainability review process integrates sustainability into 
project planning by helping teams identify risks and opportunities associated 
with expansions or development projects. The process enables us to identify, 
prioritize and proactively manage potential risks before a project has begun 
and continuously throughout its development. It also incorporates identification 
and prioritization opportunities — for example to partner with communities to 
create shared value by protecting cultural heritage from the earliest stages. 
The process is applied during the early stages of mine expansion and project 
development, particularly during scoping, prefeasibility and feasibility stages so 
that risks may be adequately addressed early and continuously throughout. The 
process also supports preparation for future closure of operations.
Since its inception in 2011, we have undertaken reviews and implemented actions 
for 32 projects. Key focus areas identified at different project stages have included: 
access to water, energy and materials, potential impacts to hydrology, air quality, 
biodiversity, human rights, community receptivity, economic impacts, and land 
acquisition and resettlement. 
We are currently undertaking this process for the design and construction of 
our new greenfield smelter and precious metals refinery in Indonesia. During 
the planning stages for the project the process was initiated through a cross 
functional team which identified a number of actionable risks and opportunities 
that the project and corporate teams are now working to address. These include 
risks to cultural heritage, climate change, water and human rights among 
others. Meetings are held with action owners over time to address risks and 
opportunities as construction continues. 
The process complements the risk register process and serves as a key input 
to the risk register once a project is operational, enhancing the integration of 
sustainability into decision-making across the company.
Sites use the risk register to 
identify risks and opportunities 
related to our commitments in 
relation to their operation and 
stakeholders.
Our Bagdad mine in 
Arizona was awarded the 
Copper Mark in 2021.
Ficitem intiae lautati cus qui 
volupic itaturiat est quidis 
acipsam, none litium sam cuptaspe 
ditatquae poritam enihiciatur aut 
quid experum anis as inulla nis
 22
Safford is a mine-for-leach operation in Arizona that 
produces copper cathode. The operation consists of 
three open pits, including the Lone Star open-pit.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 23
ROBUST GOVERNANCE
Freeport’s governance structures are the foundation for delivering consistent, long-term stakeholder value, and they 
reflect our commitment to ESG matters and their importance to every aspect of our company.    
Freeport has designed and implemented rigorous policies and processes that drive broad engagement with and 
strong accountability from company leadership on our ESG commitments. These policies and processes support our 
efforts to embed sustainability into company practices and integrate ESG into everyday decision-making. 
Our governance supports our focus on transparency, which we recognize is essential to building — and maintaining 
— enduring trust with stakeholders. We are committed to reporting on our ESG performance regularly, including 
through third-party assurance frameworks. We also seek to update and strengthen our governance structures so 
that we can continue to meet evolving stakeholder expectations.   
Accountability on ESG extends to the highest levels of the company, including to our Chairman and CEO and with 
active oversight from our Board of Directors. Across our workforce, expectations are consistently expressed through 
purposeful leadership, clear policies and rigorous training.
These expectations embody the company’s commitment to ethical and legal conduct in all business practices and 
activities. Operating ethically and acting with integrity go beyond complying with laws and regulations to recognizing 
that the decisions we make as a company have an impact on others. That is one of the reasons why Freeport’s 
commitments extend beyond the boundaries of our operations, to advance the respect and promotion of human 
rights, raise the standards for our industry and drive responsibility across our value chains.  
Freeport’s governance structures are the foundation of our work to earn the respect, trust and confidence of our 
stakeholders by establishing and living up to the highest standards of responsible performance. 
 24
Governance
WHY IT MATTERS
Effective governance aligns a company’s purpose, policies and practices to inform robust 
decision-making. Strong governance is essential to achieving ESG commitments and integrates 
ESG broadly across a company by instituting procedures that drive engagement and accountability 
at the highest levels.  
OUR APPROACH
Sustainability is embedded in Freeport’s values and business strategy. Governance and oversight 
of sustainability ultimately resides with the Board, with day-to-day oversight by the executive 
leadership and site-level management teams. Good governance requires focused and consistent 
leadership to ensure Freeport’s values and sustainability strategy are integrated into everyday 
operations and business decisions. We have the structure and processes in place to facilitate 
effective decision-making and advance our stakeholders’ long-term interests. Given the breadth 
and complexity of sustainability issues, our governance structure seeks to leverage our internal 
regulatory and technical expertise to identify sustainability-related risks and opportunities through 
the effective management and oversight of an interdisciplinary team.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
The Board oversees and guides the company’s business strategy and monitors the development and 
management of risks that impact the company’s strategic goals, including sustainability-related risks. 
In its risk oversight role, the Board reviews, evaluates and discusses with appropriate members of 
management whether the risk management processes designed and implemented by management 
are adequate in identifying, assessing, managing and mitigating material risks facing the company, 
including financial, international, operational, social and environmental risks. As part of our 
governance practices, the Board has a lead independent director with clearly defined responsibilities, 
providing an effective balance between strong company leadership and appropriate safeguards and 
oversight by independent directors. 
Certain areas of the Board’s risk oversight are delegated to its four standing committees: Audit, 
Compensation, Corporate Responsibility, and Governance. Each of these committees is composed 
entirely of independent directors and regularly reports to the full Board. Committee charters define 
the roles and responsibilities of each committee within the company’s governance framework. Our 
Corporate Governance Guidelines, along with the charters of our four standing Board committees, 
provide Freeport’s governance framework and reflect the Board’s commitment to monitor the 
effectiveness of policy, decision-making and performance at both the Board and management levels. 
2021 KEY ESG TOPICS
Board Meetings
▸	 Workforce safety and health
▸	 Climate strategy and related industry initiatives
▸	 Supply chain resiliency update
▸	 Workforce technology and innovation initiatives 
Corporate Responsibility Committee Meetings
▸	 Workforce safety and health
▸	 Climate strategy, including new emissions 
reduction target for PT-FI and results of global 
climate scenario analysis
▸	 Human rights program, including human rights 
impact assessment (HRIA) progress in Chile 
and Arizona and annual adoption of UK Modern 
Slavery Act Statement 
▸	 Tailings management, including progress 
implementing the Global Industry Standard 
on Tailings Management in Americas, PT-FI’s 
human health risk assessment, and adoption of a 
standalone tailings management policy
▸	 Social investment and charitable contribution 
▸	 ESG shareholder engagement feedback 
▸	 Political spending review
▸	 Adoption of updated Environmental Policy
▸	 Responsible sourcing of minerals update  
▸	 ERM program
Compensation Committee Meetings
▸	 Workforce recruitment, retention and 
development update
▸	 Pay equity review and inclusion & diversity 
priorities 
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 25
Throughout 2021, our Board continued to exercise its active oversight role, 
with continued focus on the company’s health and safety performance 
(including ongoing COVID-19 management), climate strategy and related 
progress, as well as other matters. The Board met seven times in 2021 
and also received regular communications throughout the year from our 
Chairman and CEO regarding actions being taken to support the health, 
safety, and well-being of our workforce and our host communities, as well 
as supply chain resiliency and execution of our operating and ESG plans, 
including progressing our climate strategy. 
In 2021,we achieved our Board refreshment objectives adding six new 
directors to the Board during the year. The new directors bring unique and 
complementary sets of skills, perspectives, and capabilities, including in 
the areas of sustainability and climate. We are also proud of our success 
in cultivating a Board that reflects diversity across both professional and 
personal characteristics. 
THE BOARD’S CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE 
The CRC, on behalf of the Board, is responsible for oversight of the 
company’s environmental and social policies and implementation programs 
and related matters. The CRC reviews the effectiveness of the company's 
strategies, programs, and policy implementation with respect to safety and 
health, responsible production frameworks, climate, tailings management 
and stewardship, water stewardship, biodiversity and land management, 
waste management, human rights, stakeholder relations, social 
performance and Indigenous Peoples, responsible sourcing and political 
activity and spending practices. During 2021, the CRC had three regularly 
scheduled meetings and one special meeting. Starting in 2022, the Board 
added a fourth regularly scheduled CRC meeting to continue to support 
the Board’s increased oversight on ESG-related topics. In 2021, the Board 
appointed two new directors, Mr. Dudley and Mr. Lance, to the CRC, both of 
whom have expertise in sustainability matters, including climate.
Additionally, each of the Audit, Governance and Compensation Committees 
oversee key ESG matters. The Audit Committee oversees our global 
compliance program and corporate compliance procedures, our information 
technology security and cybersecurity program and provides ultimate 
oversight of our global tax strategy as part of its financial oversight 
responsibilities. The Governance Committee oversees our corporate 
governance practices and procedures and the Compensation Committee 
oversees our human capital management programs, including those relating 
to workforce recruitment, retention and development, pay equity and 
inclusion and diversity.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP
SITE GENERAL MANAGERS
FUNCTIONAL DEPARTMENT DIRECTORS
SUSTAINABILITY LEADERSHIP TEAM
GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY NETWORK
Business Unit 
Presidents
Senior Leadership 
Functional Departments
Corporate 
Responsibility
Committee 
Governance 
Committee
Audit
 Committee
Compensation 
Committee
OPERATIONS
CORPORATE
 26
EXECUTIVE SUSTAINABILITY LEADERSHIP 
Our Chairman and CEO has responsibility for the company’s sustainability performance, with 
active oversight from the Board. Our cross-functional Sustainability Leadership Team (SLT) 
includes members of the management team tasked with defining the sustainability strategy and 
implementing our sustainability policies, systems, and programs across the organization to achieve 
integrated decision-making for responsible production and performance.
The SLT is sponsored by our Senior Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer and is led by 
our Chief Sustainability Officer, with active participation from other members of the SLT, including 
our five business unit Presidents. SLT membership also includes senior leadership from functional 
groups including health and safety, security, supply chain, human resources, sales, legal, 
compliance, sustainability and finance. 
In 2021, the SLT met monthly and members of the SLT regularly reported to executive leadership, 
including our Chairman and CEO and our President. In addition, members of the SLT regularly report 
to the Board’s CRC on key ESG matters and periodically report to the full Board. 
Executive officers are held accountable for the company’s sustainability performance through the 
company’s performance-based annual incentive program (AIP). In 2021, ESG metrics collectively 
accounted for 25% of the AIP (15% safety and 10% sustainability), with the sustainability metric 
including environment, human rights, communities, climate, tailings management and workforce 
inclusion and diversity priorities. 
37+38+15+10+J
25
%
 E
S
G
37.5% 
Operational
37.5% 
Financial
10% 
Sustainability
15% 
Safety
2021
ANNUAL INCENTIVE
PROGRAM
Team members at our Grasberg 
minerals district, Indonesia.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 27
Business Conduct & Policies
WHY IT MATTERS
Integrating responsible practices across a company with global operations requires comprehensive 
and disciplined efforts. Codifying principles of business conduct and policies helps ensure that 
a workforce understands behavioral expectations and has the tools and resources necessary to 
comply with a company’s stated principles and policies.  
OUR APPROACH
Freeport is guided by its Principles of Business Conduct (PBC), the cornerstone of our commitment 
to ethical business practices. It defines the expected behavior of all our employees and the Board 
and sets forth the global principles that our workforce must follow in all activities — from complying 
with laws, to avoiding conflicts of interest, to treating colleagues and stakeholders with dignity 
and respect. The PBC highlights our core values — Safety, Respect, Integrity, Excellence, and 
Commitment — and provides guidance for the application of these values to our business. 
Our PBC and corporate governance guidelines, along with the charters of our principal Board 
committees, provide the framework for the governance of our company and reflect our commitment to 
monitor the effectiveness of policy and decision-making at both the Board and management levels. 
We conduct comprehensive training on our PBC, including annual certification by management-
level employees and induction training for all new employees. This process consists of in-person 
or computer-based training, requiring employees to certify both their understanding of, and 
compliance with, the PBC and to report any known or suspected instances of non-compliance. The 
training covers health & safety concepts, addressing harassment & discrimination, dealing with 
inappropriate behavior, preventing conflicts of interest and retaliation from co-workers, and reminds 
employees how to raise concerns via the Compliance Line. Managers and supervisors also are 
responsible for ensuring their direct reports understand these principles. 
Our Principles of Business Conduct 
define the expected behavior of all 
our employees and the Board.
Cerro Verde operations, Peru.
 28
POLICIES & PRACTICES 
Our PBC, together with our global policies and practices, details our expected 
behaviors and commitments to our stakeholders. Descriptions of Freeport’s 
key policies are provided below, and complete policies are available in local 
languages on the corporate governance section of our website. 
Anti-Corruption 
Establishes Freeport’s zero tolerance policy for any form of corruption, 
private- or public-sector, and prohibits facilitation payments worldwide. 
Outlines procedures to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices 
Act (FCPA) and other relevant anti-corruption laws in all countries where 
we operate. 
Environmental 
Most recently updated in December 2021, the policy outlines our 
commitment to minimize the environmental impact of our operations, using 
risk management strategies based on valid data and sound science and, 
where practicable, to protect and enhance the quality of the environment in 
areas where we operate. The policy also outlines our duty to continuously 
improve the environmental performance of our operating sites through 
ISO 14001 management systems and our commitment to no mining and 
exploring in UNESCO World Heritage sites. 
Human Rights 
Outlines our commitments to respecting internationally recognized human 
rights standards, especially with respect to our workforce, host communities 
and Indigenous Peoples as well as cultural heritage. It also covers 
implementation of the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and 
Human Rights. The Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights are 
the guidelines for our security programs. 
Inclusion & Diversity 
Outlines our commitment to fostering a culture that is safety-focused, 
respectful, inclusive, and representative of the communities where we 
operate. It also describes how we advance our inclusion and diversity 
principles in the work we do. 
Political Activity & Spending Practices 
Sets forth our expectations regarding political activity and spending. 
It applies to Freeport and its affiliated political action committees. 
Responsible Sourcing of Minerals 
Outlines our commitment to producing and sourcing minerals and metals 
responsibly, including respecting human rights; preventing bribery, fraud and 
corruption; and implementing the Organisation of Economic Co-operation 
and Development (OECD) Due Diligence Guidelines for Responsible Mineral 
Supply Chains in Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas. 
Safety & Health 
Establishes our objective of zero workplace fatalities, injuries and 
occupational illnesses, as well as benchmarks to evaluate our performance. 
The policy also addresses the implementation of safety and industrial health 
audits at our operations on a regular basis. 
Social Performance 
Recognizes the vital role of stakeholder engagement and calls for 
collaboration with communities, including indigenous and vulnerable 
populations, to avoid, minimize, mitigate and remedy adverse impacts and 
pursue opportunities to maximize benefits. 
Supplier Code of Conduct 
Based on the PBC, outlines our expectations for suppliers and supports our 
commitment to only do business with suppliers and contractors who meet the 
standards we set for ethical business conduct. During 2022, we are expanding 
our Supplier Code of Conduct to a Business Partner Code of Conduct.
Tailings Management
Freeport approved a new tailings management policy in December 2021, 
which outlines our ongoing commitment to managing tailings responsibly, 
including protecting the health and safety of our workforce, host communities 
and the environment. The policy also addresses the implementation of the 
Global Industry Standard on Tailings Management for our tailings storage 
facilities and affirms our goal of zero fatalities, zero catastrophic failures, and 
zero unplanned discharges from any of our tailings facilities. 
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 29
ANTI-CORRUPTION 
Freeport recognizes that any violation of the United States Foreign Corrupt 
Practices Act (FCPA) or other anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws of any 
of the jurisdictions in which we operate could result in significant criminal or 
civil fines and penalties, litigation, loss of operating licenses or permits, as 
well as significant reputational damage.
Freeport has zero tolerance for corruption of any kind. In addition to our 
employees, we hold our contractors and suppliers to this same standard. We 
do not obtain any business advantage through bribery, improper payments, 
kickbacks, or any other illegal means. No employee, contractor, or supplier may 
offer, pay, solicit, or accept bribes in any form, including facilitation payments.
Over a decade ago, Freeport set out to modernize and grow our 
compliance function. The program today covers regulatory compliance 
in areas such as anti-corruption, international trade controls, conflicts 
of interest, discrimination and sexual harassment, forced labor and 
other subjects addressed in our PBC. Overall, the program is designed to 
identify potential problems before they occur.  
The company has a comprehensive anti-corruption infrastructure, designed 
to detect, mitigate, and remediate violations of legal and regulatory 
requirements. Our Anti-Corruption Policy and internal guidelines require 
compliance with the FCPA and other applicable laws of the countries and 
jurisdictions where we operate. In addition to our mandatory annual PBC 
training, we provide annual anti-corruption training for specific groups of 
employees, based on their roles, using a risk-based approach. In 2021, 
100% of selected employees completed the online training course.  
Given the potential legal and reputational liability that could result from 
actions of our business partners and contractors under the FCPA and other 
laws, the company operates an online due diligence platform, the Freeport 
Compliance eXchange (FCeX). FCeX is a survey-based software platform 
designed to assess risk in the areas of anti-corruption, international trade, 
human rights, and responsible sourcing. FCeX enhances our ability to identify, 
assess, and mitigate these compliance risks. In 2020, Freeport added a 
number of sustainability-related questions to the FCeX survey to gain a better 
picture of the risks a supplier may present across ESG issues and in 2021, 
Freeport completed its global roll out of FCeX. The survey is now being utilized 
for all new vendors as our first line of due diligence in our responsible sourcing 
program. Learn more in the Responsible Value Chains section below.
We perform annual company-wide program and risk assessments with 
assistance from our internal audit firm, Deloitte, which also helps to plan the 
following year’s audit strategy. In 2021, we enhanced our annual review process 
with additional support from external legal counsel. Business controls resulting 
from periodic fraud risk assessments are tested and reviewed annually at our 
corporate offices as well as at PT-FI, Cerro Verde, El Abra and Atlantic Copper.
COMPLIANCE LINE
Freeport maintains a Compliance Line along with other reporting 
mechanisms to provide guidance and assistance to our workforce on 
any questions or concerns related to our PBC, policies, or procedures. 
To encourage our workforce to report potential violations of business 
conduct, our Compliance Line enables anonymous reporting. Suppliers and 
contractors are also encouraged to use the Compliance Line, as detailed in 
our Supplier Code of Conduct.
In 2021, we received 205 reports through the Compliance Line relating to 
various topics, including employee workplace conduct; environment, health, 
and safety; protecting company assets; and potential conflicts of interest. All 
reports are investigated and, if substantiated, the appropriate disciplinary 
action is taken, up to and including termination of employment. In addition to 
reporting through the compliance line, we encourage our workforce to engage 
directly with human resources or compliance team members at the site level to 
address topics best understood by someone with local knowledge.
Freeport has zero tolerance for 
corruption of any kind, and we hold 
our employees, contractors, and 
suppliers to this same standard.
 30
Human Rights
WHY IT MATTERS 
Human rights are internationally recognized, defined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights 
and codified in international law. Mining activities have the potential to impact the way people enjoy 
these rights ― as employees, contractors, suppliers, community members, human rights defenders 
and other groups. 
OUR APPROACH 
Freeport is dedicated to the recognition, respect and promotion of human rights wherever we do 
business. Respect is a core value that guides how we do business at Freeport. We are committed to 
respecting the rights of all people, including our employees, contractors and suppliers, community 
members and others who potentially may be impacted by our business activities. We take this 
obligation seriously in all aspects of our business, and we expect the same of our business partners. 
We also recognize that human rights are overarching and that they connect to every aspect of 
our business. As such, we aim to promote human rights through proactive engagement with host 
governments and communities and by training our employees and contractors. 
Freeport respects internationally recognized human rights, including the rights under the International 
Bill of Human Rights, and is committed to implementing the United Nations Guiding Principles on 
Business and Human Rights (UNGPs). We work toward continuous improvement in establishing greater 
institutional awareness and deeper understanding of what human rights are and how they impact every 
role within the company. We also are committed to comply with the UK Modern Slavery Act, aimed at 
minimizing the risk of slavery and human trafficking throughout our business and supply chain. Our 
most recent UK Modern Slavery Act Statement is available on our website. 
On a broader scale, we participate in multi-industry dialogues on respect for human rights ― 
including Business for Social Responsibility’s human rights working group; Sustainability 50’s 
executive-level peer-to-peer collaboration and information exchange on multiple topics, including 
human rights and responsible supply chains; ICMM Working Groups; and the Voluntary Principles on 
Security and Human Rights (VPs). These external initiatives, together with local and international-
level stakeholder engagement, influence our human rights approach.
Respect is a core value at 
Freeport. We treat each 
other and our stakeholders 
with respect.
Grasberg minerals district, Indonesia.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 31
 POLICIES & PROGRAMS 
▸ 	 Human Rights Policy – This policy states our commitments to the 
International Bill of Human Rights, the UNGPs and the VPs. Our 
Human Rights Policy includes expectations for our suppliers and 
other stakeholders across our value chain. 
▸ 	 Supplier Code of Conduct – Based on our PBC, our Supplier Code 
of Conduct sets forth expectations for suppliers and contractors 
in areas such as safety, human rights, anti-corruption, community 
and environment. We mandate human rights standards through our 
supplier contracts. 
▸ 	 Responsible Sourcing of Minerals Policy – This policy commits 
our business to identifying and mitigating human rights violations 
in our supply chains of minerals and metals for our downstream 
processing facilities. 
At the Board level, the CRC provides oversight of our human rights 
program. At the management level, the SLT provides oversight, and the 
program is directed and managed by our corporate and site sustainability 
teams. Our PBC and other core policies ― including Anti-Corruption, Social 
Performance, Environmental, Safety and Health, and Inclusion and Diversity 
― support the application of the Human Rights Policy. These policies and 
supporting management systems, along with relevant external standards 
and initiatives, form the overall framework that guides our sustainability 
programs and our management of human rights risks. 
PERFORMANCE
Our human rights team continues to collaborate across our operations on 
an ongoing basis. During 2021, we enhanced our global human rights team 
with the addition of three new dedicated human rights positions at the 
corporate level to support our sites and supply chain processes. The team 
held regular meetings with high-risk sites to discuss and address complex 
issues specifically brought on by the pandemic, enabling our operations to 
adapt quickly and keep respect for human rights at the forefront. Our cross-
functional human rights working group meetings remained paused in 2021 
to enable the team to focus on supporting our sites and adapting programs 
to the challenges COVID-19 presented. In 2022, we plan to reinitiate regular 
human rights working group meetings, which will be focused on driving our 
strategy globally. 
Looking ahead, we have a number of projects underway to further embed 
respect for human rights across our business. We have significant ongoing 
work on our standalone Human Rights Impact Assessments (HRIAs) and 
are working to improve the knowledge of our workforce and suppliers 
through training. In addition, we are working to significantly improve our 
systems for our risk register, stakeholder engagement and grievance 
management. In 2022, we are expanding our Supplier Code of Conduct to 
a Business Partner Code of Conduct, in order to include our downstream 
partners, including customers and recipients of charitable giving.
Freeport is dedicated to the recognition, 
respect and promotion of human rights 
wherever we do business.
Morenci operations, Arizona.
 32
COVID-19 & Human Rights
As the pandemic continued throughout 2021, protecting our workforce from the virus remained 
paramount. We continued to adjust workforce COVID-19 requirements as the circumstances of the 
pandemic evolved, and we listened to feedback from our workforce and communities. At our Cerro 
Verde operations in Peru, most of our workforce commutes daily from Arequipa, the country’s second 
most populous city. In 2020, we recognized the need to reduce potential exposures and implemented 
a hoteling concept where employees stayed on-site for seven-day shifts after completing a screening 
process. This practice was discontinued in early 2022 as conditions improved. 
Similarly, at our PT-FI operations in Indonesia, we enacted travel restrictions between our operations 
in the Highlands and the communities in the Lowlands where most of our employees live in order to 
limit potential COVID-19 exposure for our workforce and host communities. As we gained experience 
with COVID-19 protocols and listened to feedback from our workforce and host communities, 
we responded and adjusted workforce COVID-19 requirements. PT-FI continues to socialize the 
importance of remaining vigilant in implementing COVID-19 protocols to keep employees and 
communities healthy through various communications, posters and memos. Resources such as 
the PT-FI COVID-19 Hotline are available to employees and community members to obtain health 
information regarding COVID-19 and to report anything related to the company’s mitigation efforts. 
VOLUNTARY PRINCIPLES ON SECURITY & HUMAN RIGHTS 
The VPs serve as guidelines for our security and human rights programs, including for interactions 
with host government police, military personnel and private security contractors. We focus our 
implementation primarily on Indonesia and Peru, which are higher-risk jurisdictions for security and 
human rights matters. 
Risk assessments help us identify security-related human rights risks and create action plans 
for specific site-level operating environments. Contracts with private security providers include 
requirements to comply with both our Human Rights Policy and the VPs. We maintain Memorandums 
of Understanding with host governments that detail the working relationship between the company 
and the public security personnel assigned to it. Human Rights Compliance Officers conduct training 
for security employees, security contractors and host government security. They also receive, 
document and follow up on formally, and informally, reported human rights incidents, grievances 
and allegations. Refer to our annual reports to the Voluntary Principles Plenary on our website for 
more information. 
We are an enabling 
partner for the respect 
and promotion of 
human rights within 
our own operations and 
across our value chain.
Central Analytical Service 
Center in Safford, Arizona.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 33
HUMAN RIGHTS TRAINING
Training is a core component of embedding respect for human rights 
across our business. Human rights considerations are included in our 
annual PBC training. 
In addition to PBC training, some sites also conduct targeted training on 
human rights and the VPs. This includes our sites in Indonesia and Peru, 
where both human rights and security risks are higher. Training at these 
sites is led by dedicated site-based human rights compliance officers. 
While the COVID-19 pandemic continued to impact training programs 
in 2021, PT-FI conducted approximately 7,500 hours of training on our 
Human Rights Policy and the Voluntary Principles either directly by the 
PT-FI Human Rights Office or indirectly through its Human Rights 
Ambassador program, which is designed to extend education and 
awareness of human rights to our contractors. 
Training included induction or refresher training for over 6,400 members 
of our workforce, and training prior to deployment for approximately 1,060 
police and military personnel. At our Cerro Verde operations in Peru, 
in 2021, we conducted new employee induction and annual refresher 
training on human rights as well as targeted VPs training. Training included 
approximately 3,200 hours of training on human rights and the VPs 
online and in-person for over 5,660 members of our workforce, and pre-
deployment training for 512 police personnel. 
In 2022, we are working towards developing and deploying targeted human 
rights training for lower risk sites as well as for our global supply chain 
professionals to aid in identification of issues such as potential modern 
slavery in our supply chain. 
PT-FI’s Human Rights Ambassador program provides train-
the-trainer instruction on human rights and the VPs to 
representatives from contractor companies in Papua as well 
as at our new greenfield smelter in Gresik, East Java. Once 
trained, these Human Rights Ambassadors serve within their 
respective contractor companies to promote awareness of 
our Human Rights Policy, provide culturally sensitive human 
rights induction training for their new employees, annually 
train their company’s workforce on human rights, and 
emphasize our shared responsibility for human rights.
Our PT-FI operation in 
Indonesia maintains a robust 
human rights program. 
 34
DUE DILIGENCE 
As we seek to further embed respect for human rights across our organizational activities, we use 
our risk register process to identify risks to people at our existing operations. We also have a risk 
identification process for our new or growth projects to address potential and actual impacts on 
rights-holders. We implement and refine our approach to human rights through ongoing stakeholder 
engagement, grievance management and the findings from our HRIAs. 
Standalone HRIAs, conducted by third-party consultants, are our primary method for conducting 
specific human rights due diligence at our operations, including a sampling of our onsite contractors 
and local suppliers. These assessments involve direct input from a broad cross-section of internal 
and external rights-holders, and they support continuous improvement of our management systems 
by testing their effectiveness in identifying and addressing potential, actual and perceived human 
rights risks and impacts. 
In addition to HRIAs, our responsible sourcing programs require human rights due diligence on 
suppliers of both goods and services, and minerals and metals for further processing. In 2021, we 
continued refining our approach to assess supplier human rights and other sustainability-related 
risks which we discuss in more detail in our Responsible Value Chains section. 
HRIA in Chile
In early 2021, we restarted the HRIA at our El Abra operations in Chile that had been deferred 
since 2019 due to social unrest and COVID-19 challenges. Due to ongoing COVID-19 restrictions, 
fieldwork was conducted remotely and included in-depth engagement with approximately 85 
stakeholders in and around El Abra’s operations. The range of stakeholders interviewed included 
actually and potentially affected rights-holders or those with insight into the same. The El Abra 
HRIA was completed in late 2021 by a third-party consultant, Verisk Maplecroft. In 2022, El Abra 
will work with the consultant on developing action plans and ensuring findings are reflected in the 
site's risk register.
HUMAN RIGHTS IMPACT ASSESSMENT STATUS
YEAR CONDUCTED
2013
2017
2018
2021
2021-22
2022-23
TBD
Site / Region
Corporate
Cerro Verde
New Mexico
El Abra
Arizona
PT-FI
Europe
Status
Complete
Complete
Complete
Complete
In Progress
Initiated
Targeted
Our El Abra operations in Chile completed a 
Human Rights Impact Assessment in 2021. 
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 35
The HRIA preliminary findings indicate that El Abra is a low impact operation, 
reflective of its remote location and enabled by effective management systems 
at the site and strong governance in Chile, which help to prevent risks from 
manifesting. However, some potential and actual impacts were identified, 
such as contribution to dust pollution in a desert environment, water supply 
concerns, contribution to collective industry impacts on access to and 
preservation of cultural heritage in the area, issues with long commutes and 
cost of living increases due to mining’s presence in the region. We plan to 
publish a summary of the findings and recommendations in 2022.
HRIA in Arizona
In 2021, we engaged a third-party consultant, Verisk Maplecroft, to initiate 
a HRIA across our five active Arizona operations — Bagdad, Miami, Morenci, 
Safford and Sierrita. This HRIA considers the unique stakeholder connections 
across the five sites, including relations with neighboring federally recognized 
Native American Tribes. The third-party consultant carried out stakeholder 
engagement through structured face-to-face and remote interviews at all five 
Arizona sites. Over 420 stakeholders were engaged during the interview phase 
of the process which was completed in early 2022. The review and analysis 
phase of the process is currently underway.  We expect to publish a summary 
of the findings and recommendations later in 2022. 
HRIA in Indonesia 
In late 2021, we also initiated planning for an HRIA at PT-FI in Indonesia 
and hired a third-party consultant, Acorn International. Due to the size 
and complexity of the site, we currently expect the assessment will extend 
through the end of 2023. 
In addition to HRIAs, our 
responsible sourcing 
programs require human 
rights due diligence 
on suppliers of both 
goods and services, and 
minerals and metals for 
further processing.
GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS & REMEDY 
We maintain grievance mechanisms for employees, community 
members, members of our supply chain, and others to report potential 
human rights concerns. These mechanisms help us address concerns 
early and remediate impacts directly. We are committed to open and 
collaborative cooperation to address, and where appropriate, remediate 
adverse impacts of our operations. We updated our community 
grievance mechanism in 2021, incorporating the effectiveness criteria 
outlined in the UNGPs. To learn more, please refer to the Communities 
& Indigenous Peoples section. 
El Abra workforce 
members hold a 
ceremony with 
an Indigenous 
community to thank 
Mother Earth in Chile.
 36
Responsible Value Chains
WHY IT MATTERS
How a company sources goods and services can have a significant impact 
across all ESG matters. Globally, human rights and environmental issues 
in supply chains have been receiving increasing scrutiny from consumers, 
NGOs, regulators and stakeholders. As a result, users of minerals 
and metals, such as automotive and electronics original equipment 
manufacturers, have taken steps to improve due diligence in their own 
supply chains, which has led to more attention within the mining industry. 
This pressure heightens expectations and responsibility for robust due 
diligence by mineral and metal producers globally. 
OUR APPROACH 
Freeport is committed to sourcing, producing, and distributing responsibly 
across our entire value chain. Our commitment will take on greater 
importance in the years ahead, as we expect global demand for copper to 
increase, due in part to copper’s key role in contributing to the technologies 
that will enable the energy transition.
The EU and several of its member states have recently announced various 
proposals for due diligence in supply chains covering human rights risks and 
environmental issues. These apply to companies with operations located 
within the EU and globally for products that are exported into the region. In 
preparation for these requirements, as well as continuing expectations from 
downstream customers, Freeport continues to work diligently to move to 
more mature supply chain management models that will prepare us for the 
future.
The COVID-19 pandemic has challenged supply chains globally and 
demonstrated the need for more resilient, agile and transparent supply chain 
models. Despite these challenges, we are proud of our ability to manage 
our supply chain effectively and responsibly to date and we aim to ensure 
continuity of supplies necessary for our operations in a responsible way 
moving forward.
Our responsible value chain program focuses on three key programs: (1) 
identifying and mitigating risks in our supply chains through our own responsible 
sourcing efforts for goods, services and minerals, (2) product stewardship to 
manage the risks of our products and by-products in use by ensuring these risks 
are well understood and managed, and (3) working to understand better the full 
life cycle impacts of our products along the value chain. 
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING 
Our Supplier Code of Conduct and our compliance screening processes 
represent the foundation of our responsible sourcing program for all 
suppliers globally. This is a significant undertaking, as it covers over 20,000 
suppliers that provide a wide variety of goods and services — from small 
catering businesses in remote locations to large multinational corporations 
that produce heavy machinery or minerals and metals. 
Freeport uses a combination of tools to understand and monitor supplier 
risk and to encourage robust compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct. 
FCeX is the company’s online due diligence platform that has been in place 
for several years. This survey-based software platform has enhanced our 
ability to identify, assess, and mitigate compliance risks in areas of anti-
corruption, international trade, and human rights. The software platform 
also provides data analytics and important metrics that help Freeport audit 
supplier commitments and actions for minerals and metals sourcing. In 
2020, we enhanced the responsible sourcing section in the FCeX survey 
to gather information from each supplier on their ESG programs, including 
sustainability-related management systems and certifications, human 
rights, health and safety, and environmental commitments, among others. In 
2021, we completed the global roll out of the use of the FCeX tool. 
After implementing a new responsible sourcing framework into our supply 
chain practices, we loaded 20,000 suppliers into a risk management system 
called SAP Ariba Supplier Risk Management. 
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 37
This software system consolidates ESG-related risk data during the supplier 
qualification process and provides a means for us to monitor supplier risk 
regularly. Additionally, in 2021, we established processes to assess and 
monitor the life cycle of all suppliers by integrating another component of 
the Ariba platform into our vendor onboarding process. The Ariba platform 
enhances our compliance and supplier risk assessment, using data from 
external sources in four risk domains: operations, regulatory and legal 
compliance, environmental and social, and financial. It also provides Freeport 
with the capability to conduct more in-depth risk-based assessments through 
targeted questionnaires on ESG topics. In addition to managing our suppliers 
and vendors in this system, we are working towards integrating our customers 
to further enhance our value chain due diligence beginning in 2022. 
In 2022, we plan to begin a project to integrate additional third-party ESG 
related risk indices, and internal supplier metrics, such as on-site contractor 
safety data, to enrich the quality of data available for each supplier which 
will enable more effective risk management. In addition, we will also be 
establishing a framework for risk-based supplier audits across goods and 
services and expect that work to continue into 2023.
We work with our supply chain 
and business partners to manage 
and promote responsible and 
sustainable practices.
SUPPLIER 
CODE OF
CONDUCT
MONITORING
DUE DILIGENCE
TRACKING 
PERFORMANCE 
& REPORTING
RISK
ASSESSMENT
REMEDIATION
SUPPLIER RISK
MANAGEMENT
El Abra operations, Chile.
 38
Responsible Sourcing of Minerals & Metals
In 2019, Freeport adopted and published our Responsible Sourcing of Minerals Policy, which 
commits us to identifying and mitigating human rights violations in our supply chains of minerals 
and metals used in our downstream processing facilities. The policy describes how we implement 
the OECD Guidelines on Mineral Supply Chains in Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas. It is critical 
to address London Metals Exchange’s requirements on responsible sourcing to maintain brand 
approval. It is also a requirement of both the ICMM Mining Principles Framework and the Copper 
Mark. In 2019 and 2020, we implemented the new policy across our copper mining and smelting and 
refining operations; in 2021 we implemented it across our molybdenum operations. 
In addition to the responsible sourcing process outlined above, to implement the policy, we assess 
our incoming metal and mineral supply chains to identify potential “flags” associated with what the 
OECD Guidelines define as Annex II risks — such as bribery, corruption, human trafficking, and child 
or forced labor. We then undertake a risk-based due diligence process to help us better understand 
the potential impact (if any) from the identified risks. An internal committee then reviews these 
results and takes appropriate action, which can include working together with the supplier to 
identify and implement an action plan or collaboration to build the capacity needed to address risks. 
The action plan also includes contract clauses which escalate based on risk. In 2021, we once again 
conducted due diligence on several mineral suppliers and continued collaboration with key traders 
to improve risk identification and systems. Following publication of our 2020 OECD Step 5 report 
for copper and molybdenum, which provided a summary of our efforts in 2020 and early 2021, 
we continued business-to-business collaborations to identify risks and share best practices and 
improved internal reporting processes. 
OECD 5-STEP FRAMEWORK1
Establish 
strong company 
management 
systems
Identify
& assess 
risk in the 
supply chain
Design & 
implement 
a strategy to 
respond to 
identified risks
Carry out 
independent 
third-party audit
of supply chain 
due diligence
Report annually
on supply chain 
due diligence
1
2
3
4
5
1	 www.OECD.org
In February 2021, the Copper Mark and 
its partners published a base metals due 
diligence standard, which the Copper Mark 
manages. Freeport played a leadership 
role in developing this standard, which 
provides specific steps for base metal 
producers of copper, nickel, lead, and 
cobalt to meet the OECD Guidelines. The 
due diligence standard will also prepare 
the mining industry to comply with the 
London Metals Exchange’s upcoming 
responsible sourcing requirements. 
Following the release of the new standard, 
Freeport conducted a gap assessment 
and undertook an update of our global 
standard operating procedure to align 
with the new standard as well as other 
system improvements. In December 
2021, our Atlantic Copper smelter and 
refinery voluntarily participated in a pilot 
audit with the Copper Mark using the new 
standard, during which our management 
system was assessed and a report was 
subsequently provided to the Copper 
Mark. In 2022, using this new standard 
and our Copper Mark awards, we plan 
to submit documentation demonstrating 
our compliance with the London Metals 
Exchange’s responsible sourcing 
requirements to register our copper 
brands with the London Metals Exchange. 
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 39
LOCAL PROCUREMENT
In 2021, we continued to prioritize greater transparency in our local 
procurement spending, with a focus on expanding opportunities for 
local suppliers, where feasible. At our North America operations, 
we implemented a standard operating procedure emphasizing local 
procurement. We train and encourage buyers and contract administrators 
to provide opportunities to local suppliers when possible and in 
alignment with our business needs. We are active members of WEConnect 
International, a global network that connects women-owned businesses 
to qualified buyers around the world, working to enable them to compete 
in the global marketplace. Freeport remains committed to supporting 
our local host communities and recognizes the critical role these 
communities, and businesses in those communities, play in our daily 
operations and our company’s success.
In 2021, we also began engaging with the Mining Local Procurement 
Reporting Mechanism (LPRM), which is an initiative that seeks to develop, 
through disclosures, a set of common standards agreed by both host countries 
and mining companies for what constitutes local procurement. To date, 
Freeport has met the requirements for six of the ten required disclosures. 
Many supply chain challenges appeared in 2021, and we were able to 
address those challenges by being innovative and partnering with local 
vendors. For example, our mines in North America faced disruption in 
supply of a critical bulk material. Our local producer had plant disruptions 
that limited product availability. We partnered with a local Arizona 
transportation vendor to reallocate assets and drivers to keep material 
flowing to our operations as it became available. Our Logistics and 
Transportation Team developed and began using analytics to maximize the 
efficiency of loading copper concentrate on dump trucks and railcars in 
North America. Loading every truck or railcar to its maximum limit could 
potentially reduce cost, GHG emissions and traffic on highways and rail 
networks while addressing constraints in the rail and trucking networks. 
Similarly, when our supplier of semi-synthetic engine oil in South America 
advised that delays were to be expected given congestion at ports, the 
Cerro Verde team developed a plan to reduce consumption and source 
alternative products from a supplier in Arequipa. 
Freeport remains committed to 
supporting local host communities 
and recognizes the critical role 
these communities and businesses 
play in our daily operations and our 
company’s success.
Farmers near our Cerro Verde 
operations in Peru practice 
sustainable agriculture and are 
supported by the company through 
a variety of business development 
and training programs.
 40
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP
Product Stewardship is critical to our business across the suite of 
minerals and metals we produce. It entails a variety of activities that 
provide our customers with valuable data and insights, enables our 
products to enter global markets and to be used safely by downstream 
users. Activities range from complying with chemicals management 
regulations related to transport and labeling, to working with members 
of our value chains and commodity associations to encourage the use of 
sound-science when assessing the health, safety and environmental risks 
associated with our products. 
Freeport’s Product Stewardship Forum meets several times per year and is 
comprised of members of our commercial, sustainability, quality, health and 
safety and operations teams. The forum tracks, assesses and monitors work 
across a variety of issues related to product stewardship globally. In 2021 
this included continued chemical registration of our products post-Brexit in 
in the United Kingdom, advancing work with our peers at both International 
Molybdenum Association and International Copper Association (ICA) on the 
scientific profiles of both copper and molybdenum as they relate to human 
and environmental exposure, and continuing to analyze customer and 
market requests for data and information to better prepare for the future. 
Product Stewardship is critical to 
our business across the suite of 
minerals and metals we produce. 
Safford operations, Arizona.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 41
UNDERSTANDING OUR PRODUCT FOOTPRINT
Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) provide an overview of environmental impacts across a 
product’s life cycle to enable producers to identify improvement opportunities and trade-offs. 
Globally, governments increasingly are using LCAs as impact assessments in Circular Economy 
frameworks and for carbon and water footprint comparisons. In early 2020, the ICA launched a 
project to update the current global LCA profile for copper concentrate and cathode. Freeport has 
played a key role in this work, providing data from our mining and refining facilities. In 2021, the 
work continued with expanded focus to include the ICA Global Copper Decarbonization Roadmap 
project, endeavoring to develop a methodology for estimating copper’s carbon footprint. This 
study remains in progress with expected publication in 2022 of an updated LCA profile, carbon 
footprint average for the industry and guidelines for its calculation. 
The Copper Development Association (the partner organization to ICA in North America) also 
reinitiated a project to conduct an LCA of copper rod used for electrical applications. Freeport 
participated in both studies in 2021 and will use the results to drive internal improvements, such 
as support for the company’s climate strategy and to provide data to customers and others in our 
value chain. 
Freeport is also critically focused on our own carbon footprint, in particular, on reducing Scope 1 
and 2 GHG emissions for the company. In 2021, Freeport announced a new 30% GHG emissions 
intensity reduction target for our Indonesia operations by 2030, from our 2018 baseline. As our 
operations in Indonesia represent roughly 50% of Freeport’s global Scope 1 GHG emissions, this is 
a significant commitment. This GHG emissions intensity reduction target is in addition to the target 
we previously set in 2020 for our Americas copper business. Both targets are critical to reducing 
the carbon footprint of our products, as the majority of our GHG emissions are Scopes 1 and 2. In 
2021, we also began a significant undertaking to update and make more fulsome our Scope 3 GHG 
emissions inventory globally. This work is underway and, when combined with our LCA efforts 
outlined above, should enable us to provide a more complete carbon footprint per ton of product 
to our customers for both copper and molybdenum and support our customers' efforts to meet 
demands of downstream users.    
Freeport has 
played a key 
role in this work, 
providing data 
from our mining 
and refining 
facilities.
 42
In 2021, team members safely achieved the ramp-up of production 
targets at the Grasberg minerals district in Indonesia - establishing 
the Grasberg Complex as world’s largest underground mines.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
EMPOWERED PEOPLE 
& RESILIENT COMMUNITIES
The well-being of people — whether our workforce, partners or stakeholders — is essential to the success of our 
business and at the core of all we do. 
We are deeply committed to efforts that allow us to engage and build trusting relationships with the people most 
impacted by our operations. The programs and progress described in this section reflect our commitment to 
empower our own workforce and the people in our host communities to thrive today and into the future. Our efforts, 
which are focused on protecting and supporting our workforce, host communities and Indigenous Peoples, also aim 
to support future resilience in a changing world.
In 2021, we continued wide-ranging COVID-19 mitigation protocols at each of our operating sites and provided much 
needed support. We met frequently with stakeholders in our host communities to understand and address their 
needs. As vaccines became available, we worked with partners to spearhead vaccination campaigns. Through our 
partnership with International SOS, for example, PT-FI provided vaccinations to more than 63,000 employees and 
contractors and their families. 
Internally, we worked to fortify existing systems that protect the health and safety of our workforce, including by 
advancing the use of technology to support our safety program and enhancing emergency response plans. We 
also advanced initiatives that aim to foster an inclusive workforce by providing properly fitting personal protective 
equipment (PPE) for all and by conducting a robust pay equity review. 
Externally, we continued to support the communities where we operate and embraced the cultural heritage of our 
Indigenous neighbors. For example, we partnered with Local First Arizona to help municipalities and non-profits 
apply for and win grants to build more resilient communities. We also worked with local Tribal Councils in Indonesia 
on how cultural heritage is taught and celebrated in local schools. 
These are just a few examples of how we live our commitment to empower people and build resilient communities. 
More examples of actions in support of these commitments are found in the following pages.  
 43
 44
Health & Safety
WHY IT MATTERS 
Mining by its nature is associated with hazardous work that must be carefully 
understood and managed. Workforce safety is essential to operational success. 
On a daily basis, our mining workforces engage in high-risk activities such 
as drilling and blasting rock, operating heavy machinery, using chemicals, 
working with high-voltage electricity, working at heights or below surface, 
working with high-temperature materials as well as other high-risk tasks. 
OUR APPROACH
Safety is a core company value and is foundational to our sustainability 
approach. Our highest priority is the health, safety and well-being of our 
employees, contractors, suppliers and the communities where we operate. 
We believe that health and safety considerations are integral to, and 
fundamental for, all other functions in our organization and we understand 
that the health and safety of our workforce is critical to our operational 
success and efficiency and ultimately to our ability to deliver long-term 
value to our stakeholders.
We strive to achieve zero workplace fatalities, high-risk incidents, injuries 
and occupational illnesses by creating a safe and healthy workplace. 
This includes providing the training, tools and resources needed so our 
workforce can identify risks and consistently apply effective controls. We 
share information and key learnings about potentially fatal events, high-risk 
near misses and best practices throughout the company, and we engage 
with industry peers outside the organization to learn and continuously 
improve our health and safety performance.
In 2021, we continued to integrate our Safe Production Matters strategy 
into our operations globally. This strategy is focused on fatality prevention 
and continuous improvement by using robust management systems, 
empowering safe work behaviors and strengthening our safety culture. Our 
principal focus is on the prevention of fatalities and high-risk incidents, 
which we seek to manage by leveraging technology to support the efficiency 
of safe work practices in the field and data driven decision making in 
combination with behavioral science principles. 
Other key focus areas include the elimination of systemic root causes of 
incidents, especially those that potentially could lead to recurrence; increasing 
verification of corrective actions over time; and applying lessons across 
the company globally. During the year, we continued our work to provide 
operational leaders with timely and transparent information to support and 
encourage quality safety discussions with employees in the field.  
Policies & Programs
▸	 Safety and Health Policy — States our commitments, processes and 
management systems to meet our health and safety objectives. 
▸	 Contractor Health and Safety Manual — Defines the expectations and 
requirements for contractors working at our operations. 
▸	 Occupational Health and Safety Management System — Provides the 
framework for managing risks and compliance obligations. In 2021, 
we completed certification of our system in accordance with the new 
ISO 45001 Health and Safety Management System, which requires 
third-party site-level verification of requirements, with a goal to 
prevent fatalities and reduce incidents.
Our ambition is to put safety first — for 
ourselves, for each other and for our 
communities — by championing a culture 
of safety, health and well-being wherever 
we do business.  
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 45
Operational leadership teams own our safety performance and is supported by our Vice President of 
Health and Safety who oversees our safety programs across the organization, including implementation 
of our strategy and company-wide initiatives, safety management systems and safety audit programs, 
and incident investigations. Executive management receives safety performance reports regularly, 
including reviews of high-risk, potentially fatal and fatal incidents, and we present and discuss all fatal 
incident investigations with the CRC and the Board. In the event of a fatality, executive management and 
the CRC is notified immediately. The CRC provides input on the overall direction of Freeport’s health and 
safety programs and reviews safety statistics, trends and incident reports.
ONGOING COVID-19 RESPONSE AND MANAGEMENT 
During 2021, to help contain and mitigate the risk of spread of COVID-19, we continued our 
COVID-19 protocols at each of our operating sites globally including regular testing, social 
distancing, masks, temperature checks and contact tracing. Our global operations continued to 
develop, refine and implement site-specific COVID-19 mitigation protocols to protect our workforce, 
our host communities and our business. This included frequent and timely communications designed 
to educate, equip and protect our workforce and host communities. Additionally, our administrative 
support teams continued to work remotely, when possible.  
To date, our protocols have been largely effective in mitigating and preventing a major outbreak of 
COVID-19 at our operations. We will continue to monitor, assess and update our COVID-19 related 
responses moving forward. 
During 2021, we made great progress across our international locations in supporting vaccination rollout 
for our workforce. Globally, our current employee vaccination rates are 95% for our South American 
sites, and 90% for our Indonesian operations but only 56% for our North American sites. We continue in 
2022 to support vaccination campaigns in and around the communities where we operate.
Likewise, we continue to work closely with our host communities across the globe and have helped 
to provide access to vaccinations and testing, monetary support and in-kind contributions of 
medical supplies and food. For example, in Papua, we donated oxygen concentrators to the Mimika 
Regency General Hospital and Mitra Masyarakat Hospital and also provided 10 additional oxygen 
concentrators to the Kuala Kencana Clinic. In Peru, we donated a new oxygen-generating plant to serve 
the community in the district of Tiabaya, Uchumayo and surrounding areas. An additional oxygen-
generating plant donated last year to the Honorio Delgado Regional Hospital is already in operation.
Oxygen plant donated by our Cerro Verde 
operations in Arequipa, Peru to support 
COVID-19 relief efforts.
 46
FATAL RISK MANAGEMENT PROGRAM 
Our culture of leading by example at all levels of the organization and our 
Safe Production Matters strategy underpin our Fatal Risk Management 
(FRM) program. The goal of our FRM program is to achieve zero workplace 
fatalities by strengthening preventative measures. Fundamental to the FRM 
program is our effort to proactively identify potentially fatal risks in the field 
and apply the controls most critical for their avoidance. We have identified 
23 potentially fatal risks common to some or all of our operations and have 
implemented critical controls across our operations to help manage them.
Leadership across the organization is engaged in efforts to broaden and 
continually improve our FRM. Importantly, we expect all employees and 
contractors to take ownership of their own safety, the safety of their 
co-workers and that of our host communities. Our frontline supervisors play 
a vital role in the success of FRM by engaging their teams in discussions to 
identify risks in the work they set out to do each day, keeping employees 
focused and eliminating distractions. 
Leadership teams are responsible for setting expectations with their teams 
on safety and promoting a culture where employees are empowered to 
work safely including using their stop-work authority in the event of a 
safety concern. We expect our workforce to stop work immediately if critical 
controls are missing or ineffective, or if work is not being performed safely. 
We regularly verify critical controls to assess their proper use and 
effectiveness. This helps ensure that controls are in place to mitigate high-
risk tasks. Critical control verifications also provide leading indicator data 
to strengthen our FRM program, as well as our overall health and safety 
management system. A critical control checklist is available on mobile 
devices to assist supervisors in real time in the field. The checklist helps to 
identify and capture variances in our critical controls and provides real-time 
information to support faster action plans to address identified gaps. 
To facilitate learning from any high-risk, potentially fatal and/or fatal incidents 
― and importantly to help prevent reoccurrence ― we conduct investigations 
that include a thorough root cause analysis using the TapRooT® system. The 
results are the basis for identifying, implementing and verifying corrective 
actions and working toward sustained improvement. Required follow-
up includes a review of findings with senior management and site senior 
leadership who oversee and are responsible for implementing corrective 
actions. The Health & Safety team also seeks to identify opportunities for 
company-wide education and improvements. All fatalities and corrective 
actions are reviewed and discussed with the Board and the CRC. 
PERFORMANCE 
We measure our safety performance through regularly established 
benchmarks, including our company-wide Total Recordable Incident Rate 
(TRIR), which includes incidents for both employees and contractors. In 
2021, our Freeport workforce worked almost 131 million hours and had 455 
recordable injuries during the year, compared with 120 million hours and 417 
recordable injuries in 2020. Our 2021 TRIR was 0.70 per 200,000 man-hours 
worked, which was higher than our 0.69 target for the year.
HEALTH & SAFETY PERFORMANCE DATA1
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
Total Recordable Events
428
461
525
417
455
% High-Risk2
23%
11%
11%
7%
7%
Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)3
0.74
0.71
0.74
0.69
0.70
TRIR Annual Target
0.63
0.70
0.73
0.70
0.69
Number of Fatalities
5
1
3
5
2
1	 All health and safety performance data include employees and contractors, unless otherwise noted. All data 
performance rates are calculated per 200,000 hours worked, except where indicated. 	
	
	
2	 Our risk register defines "high-risk" events as incidents that have the potential to result in permanent disabilities or 
fatalities.		
	
3	 TRIR = [(Fatalities + Lost-time Incidents + Restricted-duty Incidents + Medical Treatment) x 200,000] / Total Hours 
Worked. TRIR is equivalent to MSHA All-Incidence Rate (AIR). TRIR presented here may differ from reported TRIR 
in FCX's Form 10-K filings because data have been adjusted to exclude disposed assets for comparison purposes.
Following the filing of FCX’s 2021 Form 10-K, FCX learned of a mischaracterized incident which resulted in an 
adjustment to FCX’s 2021 company-wide TRIR from 0.69 to 0.70.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 47
Fatal Events 
Regrettably, two contractor fatalities occurred in 2021 ― one at our PT-FI operations in Indonesia, 
and one at our Morenci operations in Arizona. We strive to have a strong culture of safety at all levels 
of our organization and across all our sites to meet our objective of zero fatalities for our workforce, 
including both employees and contractors. Effective fatality prevention is paramount, and we are 
committed to learning from, and improving upon, our own experiences and those from across the 
industry to improve our fatality prevention programs.
In response to the two fatalities that occurred in 2021, we implemented corrective actions that 
included new safety processes, increased training and provided more contractor support. Senior 
leadership at our sites and at the corporate level are actively engaged in the corrective action 
process, including periodic verifications and long-term sustainability of corrective actions.  
Following the fatality at PT-FI, we improved the training and licensing requirements for armored 
light vehicle drivers and installed a GPS monitoring system in targeted vehicle fleets that tracks 
vehicle speed and other operational data, which may help to identify improvement opportunities 
in vehicle operations on the main supply road near our operations. PT-FI’s senior leadership is 
accountable for verifying implementation, and continuation of, corrective actions. 
In response to the fatality at our Morenci operations, we are working with the contracting company 
to provide their employees with refreshed training on our health and safety expectations, with 
a specific focus on confined space protocols, hazard awareness and fatal risk identification. To 
reinforce these actions, we have reassessed resource needs and timing expectations of projects 
across our operations and are updating the contractor safety manual used during onboarding. 
Following the death or serious injury of one of our employees, we initiate multiple steps of care 
after the initial emergency response and provide assistance for the employee’s family. When an 
employee is seriously injured, the company provides support to the employee and his or her family 
members during the employee’s medical treatment. In the case of a workplace fatality, we assist 
with funeral arrangements as appropriate. In addition, senior leadership reviews the evaluation 
of each incident to determine compensation for the family, irrespective of liability and in addition 
to local requirements. We encourage our contractors to approach these types of incidents in a 
similar manner and, depending on the facts and circumstances, we are involved in providing or 
supplementing contractor assistance.
2021 WORKPLACE FATALITIES
June 2021
At PT-FI, a vehicle operator was fatally 
injured after losing control of their 
vehicle while not wearing a seatbelt. 
Contractor 
September 2021
At Morenci, a welder was fatally injured 
after entering a  welded pipe segment 
after oxygen had been removed as part 
of the welding process. 
Contractor 
 48
High-Risk Events 
In 2021, the percentage of high-risk safety incidents, which are defined as having the potential to 
cause permanent disability or fatality, continued to trend downward. Overall, the percentage of 
high-risk incidents has trended down from approximately 11% in 2018 and 2019 to approximately 
7% in 2020 and 2021. We believe this downward trend reflects the positive impact of our safety 
program and Safe Production Matters strategy, which focuses on mitigating those workplace tasks 
with the highest potential consequences and implementing critical controls to minimize risk and 
prevent fatalities. 
To ensure we are focused on the most-critical high-risk incidents, our risk matrix includes either 
an “actionable” or “monitor” rating for all high-risk events. To better understand and define the 
spectrum of our high-risk recordable incidents, in 2017, we expanded our risk matrix to include 
both “actionable” or “monitor” ratings categories for high-risk events. While we have always been 
focused on high-risk events, this change resulted in elevating more incidents to a higher level, 
which resulted in increased corrective actions and in the monitoring of critical controls to help 
prevent reoccurrence. This explains the increase in high-risk events in 2017 and the subsequent 
improvement in the years that followed. The action items and monitoring programs implemented 
have led to a decrease in the number of high-risk incidents in recent years.
TOTAL RECORDABLE EVENTS (% HIGH-RISK1)
92+44+44+28+28
25%
20%
15%
10%
5%
0
23%
11%
11%
7%
2017 2018 2019 
2021
1	 Our Sustainable Development Risk Matrix defines  
high-risk events as incidents that have the potential  
to result in a permanent disability or a fatality.
7%
2020
INTEGRATING TECHNOLOGY INTO SAFETY PROGRAM 
We continue to apply what we have learned company-wide and to 
advance the effectiveness of our safety programs by embracing 
new technology. Through mobile technology and enterprise-wide 
dashboards, we seek to facilitate prompt response to potential 
or emerging risks and build our capacity for data-driven decision 
making. Our digitization efforts aim to make information and 
data more accessible and useful to workers in the field and help 
strengthen company safety systems by providing real-time 
information on workplace conditions to every employee. In 2022, we 
plan to pilot a project at our Tyrone, New Mexico, operation to install 
collision awareness technology on mine equipment. We believe 
a successful implementation of this technology could result in a 
meaningful reduction of high-risk incidents.
Safford operations, Arizona.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 49
EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLANNING
All Freeport sites and facilities are required to have a crisis management 
plan in place to effectively respond to potential emergencies or crises. 
Our crisis management program is intended to support the safety of all 
people who could potentially be impacted by a crisis event at or near one 
of our sites. The program is intended to guide our operational approach to 
preparing for, responding to, and recovering from potential risks. 
Our PT-FI operations in Indonesia has a mature and robust crisis 
management program and, for many years, PT-FI’s emergency response 
team has conducted periodic tests of its crisis management plan and is often 
recognized nationally.
In 2021 in the Americas, we worked with a third-party consultant to update 
our crisis management program and guidelines. Our updated guidelines 
are aligned with industry best practice and outline the expectations for our 
workforce including how they should engage with emergency responders 
and community members who may be impacted by crisis events related to 
our operations. In line with the updated guidelines, each site is required 
to periodically test and drill their crisis management plans with local 
emergency responders.
During 2022, our sites are working internally to update their site-specific 
programs in alignment with the updated guidelines, perform internal tests 
of the updated plans and begin engaging collaboratively with external 
stakeholders to socialize our emergency preparedness plans. Starting in 
2023, we plan to begin testing and drilling our emergency response plans 
with relevant stakeholders. 
CHINO EARNS SENTINELS OF SAFETY AWARD
In September 2021, the National Mining Association honored our 
Chino operations in New Mexico with a Sentinels of Safety Award 
for outstanding achievement in mine safety in 2019 and 2020. The 
Sentinels of Safety Award is the most prestigious recognition of 
mine safety in the U.S. and is awarded annually to the nation’s safest 
mines, as measured by a minimum of 4,000 injury-free hours. Chino 
is one of two of our operations located in Grant County, New Mexico. 
Our New Mexico operations share resources with one another, which 
enables a collaborative approach to mine safety education and 
supportive culture across both operations. 
All Freeport sites and facilities have 
a crisis management plan in place 
to effectively respond to potential 
emergencies or crises. 
We have a fatigue monitoring system deployed 
in our mobile fleets that communicates with 
a dispatch tower in the case of an alert. Team 
member at our Morenci operations, Arizona.
 50
ARTISANAL MINING IN PAPUA 
At our Grasberg operations in Indonesia, illegal artisanal miners seek unrecovered gold from our 
milling operations by panning in our controlled riverine tailings system. On average, approximately 
4,000 artisanal miners with their women and children (an additional 800 people) are in the Lowlands 
and approximately 850 artisanal miners are in the Highlands. About 65% of artisanal miners in the 
Lowlands come from outside Papua and represent over 45 different ethnic groups, while artisanal 
miners in the Highlands are from Papua. 
Artisanal mining within PT-FI’s concession area is illegal. However, artisanal miners set up camps 
at various points along the controlled riverine tailings system. Many do not have expertise operating 
in hazardous conditions, including remote terrain and varied climatic conditions. Additional safety 
challenges exist, related to PT-FI’s ongoing levee maintenance and earthworks, which are needed to 
responsibly manage the controlled riverine system. The potential use of mercury for gold extraction 
by illegal artisanal miners remains a concern, and PT-FI conducts regular monitoring for mercury use 
through its routine environmental monitoring programs in and around its concession area.
PT-FI cannot address illegal artisanal mining on its own. A multi-faceted approach — including 
government cooperation, security risk management, stakeholder engagement and socioeconomic 
development for alternative livelihoods — is essential. PT-FI’s community liaison officers and 
third-party contractors in the field proactively and continuously engage with the artisanal mining 
communities on operational changes in an effort to manage their expectations, encourage them 
to seek alternative livelihoods, and to minimize risks to the operations and to the artisanal miners 
and their families. PT-FI also seeks to inform the artisanal miners in advance of planned levee 
maintenance work and equipment movements to minimize safety risks. 
In 2021, as a part of PT-FI’s ongoing engagement with the illegal artisanal mining community, we began 
human rights education, with a focus on the rights of children living in the artisanal mining camps on our 
site. This includes human rights awareness training and ongoing monitoring with a focus on preventing 
child labor. The training is carried out in a partnership between PT-FI's human rights and community 
liaison officers and a third-party contractor involved in managing illegal artisanal mining activities.
PT-FI cannot address illegal artisanal 
mining on its own. A multi-faceted 
approach is essential.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 51
KNOWN COMMUNITY & INDIRECT FATALITIES 
In an effort to develop a more holistic understanding of the health and safety impacts of our 
mining activities either beyond our boundaries or our operational control, we began disclosing 
known community and indirect fatalities in 2020. Our ultimate goal is to positively contribute to the 
improved health and safety of the people in our host communities by supporting their efforts to avoid 
reoccurrence of these incidents. 
There is no standard definition of known community and indirect fatalities. For purposes of 
our reporting, we have included non-occupational related fatalities (excluding illnesses) that 
occurred within our area of operations, fatalities related to security events in our communities, 
fatalities associated with mining activities that occurred offsite and outside of our control within 
the communities where we operate (such as transportation of goods and services), and fatalities 
associated with illegal artisanal mining. 
During 2021, there were 9 known community and indirect fatalities, including 3 offsite 
transportation-related fatalities, 2 workforce members who passed away from natural causes and 
4 fatalities associated with illegal artisanal mining at PT-FI where panners seek unrecovered gold in 
our controlled riverine tailings system.
For more information on our management of security events and our implementation of the 
Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, please refer to the human rights section of this 
report and our annual report to the Voluntary Principles Plenary available on our website.
Grasberg minerals district, Indonesia.
 52
Workforce 
WHY IT MATTERS
An inclusive and diverse workforce with a broad range of experience, 
knowledge, background, culture and heritage drives innovation, enhances 
operational performance and improves relationships with stakeholders. 
Mining, by its cyclical nature, presents challenges to cultivating and 
maintaining a skilled, stable and diverse workforce. Commodity price 
fluctuations, geographically remote operations, shifting local demographics, 
technological advances that are changing the way we work and competition 
for talent ― from both inside and outside the industry ― present barriers to 
hiring and retention.
OUR APPROACH
Freeport believes that our people are the foundation of our success and a 
competitive advantage. Our ability to successfully recruit, retain, develop 
and advance talented employees is paramount. We focus on attracting 
and retaining talented people by offering quality employment with fair and 
equitable compensation and benefits, as well as with opportunities for 
professional development and growth. We prioritize a highly engaged, agile 
workforce and, in addition to safety, we aim to support the overall health 
and well-being of our workforce by providing access to health and wellness 
resources, offering opportunities for flexible work schedules at some of our 
operating sites, among other efforts.
Freeport operates in regions of varying ethnic, religious and cultural 
backgrounds, where we often are the largest employer in our host 
communities. As such, we are committed to fostering a company culture 
that is not only safety-focused, respectful, and inclusive, but also that is 
representative of the communities where we operate. 
We seek to design our programs and initiatives with standardized 
processes and priorities while being adaptable to site specific or situational 
circumstances. We believe that each of our site’s leadership team knows 
their site best and how to successfully apply our human capital management 
programs. In order to support our sites with this effort, we have site-based 
employees who rollout programs tailored to their site-specific needs. 
Our core policies ― including our PBC, Human Rights Policy, Supplier Code 
of Conduct, Inclusion and Diversity Policy and Social Performance Policy 
― together outline our company culture, our commitment to doing what 
is right, and the expectations we have of all employees and contractors. 
These global policies are publicly available and translated into the local 
languages of the regions where we operate. We fully expect our workforce 
to understand and comply with our trainings, policies and procedures.
Our culture is safety-focused, respectful 
and inclusive in order to empower our 
workforce to innovate, adapt and succeed.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 53
PERFORMANCE
At the end of 2021, Freeport’s global workforce totaled approximately 24,700 employees and 
42,000 contractors. Our overall workforce increased from the prior year counts of 24,500 
employees and 33,300 contractors, largely due to increased contractors with the ramp up of 
underground operations at Grasberg during the year and resumption of global mining activities 
closer to pre-pandemic levels. 
Our total employee turnover rate was 9.4% in 2021, decreasing from 14.6% in 2020, when we 
experienced a higher-than-normal rate due to a voluntary separation program early in the year. 
Our 2021 turnover rate is in line with our historical levels. 
47+25+24+4+J
GLOBAL WORKFORCE
(As of December 31, 2021)
North America	
47%
Indonesia	
25%
South America	
24%
Europe / Other	
4%
EMPLOYEES
(Approximately 24,700)
53+32+15+0+J
Indonesia	
53%
North America	
32%
South America	
15%
Europe / Other	
0%
CONTRACTORS
(Approximately 42,000)
Henderson mine, Colorado.
 54
LABOR RELATIONS
We recognize and respect the rights of our employees, including rights to freedom of association 
and collective bargaining, without interference or fear of retaliation. We prohibit forced, compulsory 
and child labor and human trafficking. We do not tolerate any form of harassment or discrimination 
against individuals based on race, color, sex, religion, national origin, sexual orientation, gender 
identity or expression, disability, age, veteran’s status or any other characteristic protected by 
applicable law. 
During 2021, we continued to maintain positive and collaborative relationships with unions 
representing our employees, working cooperatively with 12 unions in 7 locations worldwide. 
Approximately 31% of our global employee population is covered by a collective labor agreement 
(CLA). Our operations in Indonesia, Europe and South America all are covered by a minimum of 
49% representation. In 2021, we successfully completed union negotiations at Cerro Verde with 
both unions and with the union at Stowmarket, and in early 2022, we successfully completed union 
negotiations at PT-FI with all three unions.
Our North American workforce is not represented by unions. Our hourly employees in North America 
elect to work directly with company management using our Guiding Principles agreement that 
outlines how we work together to achieve our collective goals within the values of the company. The 
Guiding Principles are periodically updated with input from employees and they include a problem-
solving process that complements our broader employee grievance mechanism, adding significant 
value to both our workforce and the company. 
We openly engage with our employee and union leadership to negotiate and uphold labor 
agreements, recognizing that prolonged strikes and other work stoppages can adversely affect our 
business, our workforce and regional stakeholders. In 2021, there were no strikes or lockouts at any 
of our operations. 
EMPLOYEES UNDER COLLECTIVE 
LABOR AGREEMENTS IN 2021
49+62+66+0
49%
62%
66%
0%
31% FCX Global Average
80%
60%
40%
20%
0%
Indonesia
Europe / Other 
      FCX Global
South America
North America1
1	 In North America, our hourly employees continue to 
elect to work directly with company management 
rather than through union representation using our 
Guiding Principles contract, which adds value to the 
workforce and the company.
We recognize and respect 
the rights of our employees.
Chino operations, New Mexico.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 55
ENGAGING & DEVELOPING OUR WORKFORCE 
We continue to instill Freeport Edge behaviors across our workforce to drive 
the performance needed to deliver an innovative mining future. We believe 
that the five Freeport Edge behaviors — Aim High, Pursue Value, Collaborate 
as One Freeport, Empowered to Act and Develop and Coach Our People — can 
help us to effectively cultivate, motivate, retain and develop our workforce.
In 2021, Freeport developed and began to implement a new employee 
performance management system. The system is characterized by consistent, 
clear expectations and accountability and includes measuring performance 
against Freeport Edge behaviors as well as promoting regular feedback dialogue 
for individuals and managers. The system is being rolled out in several phases — 
which started with corporate staff and operations and maintenance employees 
in North America. The phased, agile rollout of the new system has allowed for 
learnings to be applied in real-time to enhance the system quickly.
Also in 2021, we initiated a comprehensive, skills-based “job architecture” 
project in North America, which strives to create a consistent structure for all 
roles including the responsibilities, scope and impact as well as the skills and 
capabilities which allow individuals to thrive in their role. It also aims to show 
clear pathways and progression of how an employee can build the needed 
skills and advance on various potential pathways within the company. Looking 
forward, we plan to implement an online platform for employees to create a 
transparent view into the job architecture project, including skill proficiency 
requirements and potential career pathways through an employee driven, 
company-sponsored approach. 
FREEPORT EDGE BEHAVIORS
AIM HIGH
PURSUE VALUE
COLLABORATE AS
ONE FREEPORT
EMPOWERED 
TO ACT
DEVELOP & COACH
OUR PEOPLE
Freeport believes that integrating and 
embodying the five Freeport Edge 
behaviors will help us continue to foster 
an engaged workforce.
An employee at our El Abra 
operation in Chile completes haul 
truck simulator training. 
 56
During the year, we launched several other initiatives aimed at developing our 
employees. For example, our Leading with Purpose Series, an agile leadership 
development program, uses adult learning theory to teach critical skills to 
leaders, including agile ways of working and new ways of viewing leadership. 
The majority of the program is applied learning versus classroom training. 
Leading with Purpose is now offered to leaders at our Americas operations 
and reached over 400 leaders in 2021. We are looking to launch Leading with 
Purpose in Europe in 2022.
We believe our front-line leaders are critical to employee development and 
retention efforts and to safely delivering on our strategy. Accordingly, during 
the year, we kicked off a leadership program designed specifically for frontline 
leaders at our North American sites. The pilot program, Coaching for Success, 
is an interactive, virtual training with facilitated discussion among leaders 
from across the organization covering topics ranging from how to provide 
valuable feedback to being an empathetic leader. We offered multiple monthly 
sessions with each session focusing on a different leadership topic. 
We maintain a website of training materials and additional resources for 
leaders to reference throughout the year. In 2021, over 3,000 North American 
leaders attended the sessions and provided valuable feedback on future 
topics, which we will seek to offer in 2022.
Similarly, PT-FI’s Leadership 2021 Program trained 1,500 leaders, including 
front-line supervisors and senior level management. Some of the topics covered 
included situational leadership, coaching for supervisors, foreman workshops, 
effective workplace relationships and change leadership in difficult times.
Looking ahead, we expect that our talent development programs will continue 
to mature and evolve in line with our commitment to continuous improvement. 
We recognize that the ongoing training and development of our workforce is 
critical to helping to ensure that we have the right people with the necessary 
skills to deliver on our business strategy ― today and well into the future.
Morenci operations, Arizona.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 57
TALENT DEVELOPMENT FRAMEWORK
Our People
Skill Building
Career Progression
Organizational Development
Strategic Direction
Performance 
& Recognition
1
3
4
5
2
A DIGITALLY EMPOWERED WORKFORCE
We launched a digital program, Connected Asset, across our 
North America operations in 2021, and initiated discussions 
about the program at our South America and Indonesia 
operations. This program calls for QR labels to be affixed to 
trucks, dozers, crushers and other equipment and vehicles. 
Scanning the code on the QR label will give front-line mechanics, 
operators and supervisors immediate access to critical data 
on any given piece of equipment. Our mine operations and 
maintenance teams use the real-time data to dive into the details 
of shovel and haul truck alarms in addition to visualizations of 
pumps, conveyors and mills. So far, we have attached about 
2,100 QR codes to vehicles and equipment company-wide. 
The beauty of Connected Asset is that real-time data related to 
equipment health, including sensor data, alerts and advanced 
analytics can be accessed from tablets in the field. Nearly 
8,000 tablets are now in the hands of workers who benefit from 
having the technology, and our equipment inspections, job risk 
assessments, Fatal Risk Management program and permitting 
processes benefit from having real-time data. 
We recognize that the ongoing training 
and development of our workforce is 
critical to helping ensure that we have the 
right people with the necessary skills to 
safely deliver on our business strategy.
 58
INCLUSION & DIVERSITY
As a global organization that operates in diverse parts of the world, 
we recognize the importance of inclusion and diversity as a company 
priority. More recently, as part of our broader organizational and culture 
transformation ― and in step with the rollout of Freeport Edge ― we have 
made several advancements to refocus and strengthen the governance, 
resourcing and strategic direction of the program. This has included 
formalizing a global inclusion and diversity policy, dedicating human 
resources team members to focus on inclusion and diversity initiatives and 
creating a cross-functional Inclusion and Diversity Steering Committee. 
The Committee is sponsored by our President and includes senior 
representatives from human resources, legal, operations, administration 
and finance teams, meeting quarterly to help guide the strategy and 
direction of our inclusion and diversity team.  
Overall, 2021 was a foundational year for our inclusion and diversity efforts, 
and we further built upon the progress made in 2020. At the Board level, we 
are proud of our success in cultivating a refreshed Board during the year 
that reflects diversity across both professional and personal characteristics. 
Currently, 36% of our Board is represented by women and 18% of our Board 
is either racially or ethnically diverse. 
Our Inclusion and Diversity Policy applies to our global workforce and was 
approved in late 2020. During 2021, we trained leaders on how to foster an 
inclusive and diverse environment at our North America and South America 
operations. We plan to provide training to leaders at all sites in the future. 
Increasingly, leaders across our workforce have been participating in more 
inclusion and diversity initiatives, such as becoming ambassadors for 
Women In Mining in the U.S. and in Peru. 
48+52+J
NORTH
AMERICA 98+2+J
INDONESIA 23+65+12+J
GLOBAL
 BY AGE 99+1+J
GLOBAL 
BY NATIONALITY
48% Racially or 
Ethnically Diverse
98% Indonesian 
Nationals
1%
Expatriates
23% 
Over 50
12% 
Under 30
41% Indigenous 
Papuan
99% In-Country 
Nationals
65% Between
30-50
GLOBAL EMPLOYEES (as of December 31, 2021)
Note: Figures exclude contractors
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 59
In 2021, we announced a new paid parental leave policy in the U.S., starting 
in 2022. Additional paid leave for new mothers and new fathers is intended 
to benefit families by providing more time together to create stronger bonds 
and adjust to new routines while supporting employees' financial security. 
Additionally, during 2021, an inclusion and diversity module was integrated 
into our new hire orientation and supervisor training at all North American 
operations and corporate headquarters.  
We advanced efforts to enhance our tracking and disclosure of various 
diversity metrics across our employee base including EE0-1 data disclosures 
for our North American employees. We also focused on increasing visibility 
of job openings across the organization, we promoted the use of inclusive 
language and graphics in our official communications including job postings, 
and we continued to share ideas and best practices across the organization on 
our inclusion and diversity efforts — and we plan to continue this work in 2022. 
Diversity & Local Hiring 
Freeport is committed to fostering a culture that is inclusive and representative 
of the communities where we operate. Ninety-nine percent of our employees 
are from the countries where we operate. One of our greatest opportunities 
to contribute to our host communities is through local employment and 
capacity building. Local employment directly contributes to the economic 
and social development of surrounding communities. Moreover, hiring locally 
incorporates local cultures and knowledge into our company, which can 
strengthen our programs and enhance global inclusion and diversity through 
increased awareness, understanding and perspectives. We believe varied 
workforce perspectives throughout our organization make us stronger.
Hiring locally is a commitment we make to our host communities. It is from 
this context that we must tailor our approach to inclusion and diversity — by 
all definitions — across our global business. We aspire for the diversity of 
our global workforce to reflect the diversity of the communities where we 
operate. In North America, 48% of our employee base is racially or ethnically 
diverse, including 40% Hispanic representation and 4% self-identified 
Native Americans / Alaskan Natives. In Indonesia, 98% of our employee base 
is Indonesian, including 41% who are Indigenous Papuan. 
We retain expatriate expertise for managerial and technical roles only when 
certain expert skills are not available in local communities. Expatriates and 
inpatriates receive cultural training upon their arrival to a new location. 
On average, expatriates represent less than 1% of people employed at our 
operations globally.
As we move forward, we believe enhanced communications, collaboration, 
job opportunities and talent sharing across our sites will help us leverage 
the unique perspectives and local knowledge within our organization. We 
also will seek ways to encourage and promote job opportunities for our 
Indigenous communities and other underrepresented minority groups across 
the organization, and we plan to focus on engaging with and encouraging our 
contractors to employ diverse and representative candidates. 
El Abra operations, Chile.
 60
Gender Diversity 
Gender diversity continues to be an important focus for Freeport in 
recognition that progressing an inclusive workplace culture that extends 
beyond our operational boundaries and into our communities is a critical 
driver for attracting, promoting and retaining top female talent. We are 
proactively working to retain and attract women to work at Freeport, and we 
have been working to promote an inclusive culture and to support well-being 
initiatives including flexible work hours at some sites, access to health and 
wellness resources and establishing a new parental leave policy.
Our gender representation target in 2021 remained 15% women in our 
total global employee base. At year-end, women represented 13.4% of our 
employee base, up slightly from 12.6% in 2020. The percentage of women 
in executive management roles increased by 1.9% in 2021, while the 
percentage of women in management-level positions remained flat, at 
12.3%, versus 2020. Women currently represent 36.4% of our Board. 
Representation of women in our employee base ranges widely across our 
global operations ― in North America, 19% of our employees are women, yet 
in Peru, only 6% of our employees are women. Our largest improvement in 
2021 was at our El Abra operations in Chile, where the percentage of women 
employees increased by 3% year over year to 14%. Our 2021 global employee 
attrition rate was 11% among women compared to 9% among men. Women 
represented 22% of new hires during the year.  
Part of our ongoing work moving forward is to better understand the specific 
regional contexts and drivers behind the lower numbers of women in certain 
regions and to find ways to support inclusivity through capacity building, 
resilience, skills, knowledge and career development opportunities ― as well 
as finding ways to support our people outside the workplace. While inclusion 
and diversity issues take time to identify and resolve, we are focused on 
addressing these challenges, increasing overall employee engagement and 
satisfaction, and finding ways to retain women at Freeport.
WOMEN IN LEADERSHIP POSITIONS (%)
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
Board of Directors
25.0%
28.6%
33.3%
33.3%
36.4%
Executive Management
11.1%
14.8%
13.8%
19.4%
21.2%
Management
11.2%
12.4%
12.5%
12.5%
12.3%
Non-Management
11.8%
12.8%
13.2%
12.6%
13.5%
Total Employees
11.7%
12.7%
13.2%
12.6%
13.4%
Note: Figures exclude contractors and are as of year-end. Amounts have been adjusted to follow globally applicable 
definitions for management levels and proxy statement methodology.
93+68+30+35+83
20%
15%
10%
5%
0
19%
14%
6%
7%
17%
2021 WOMEN EMPLOYED BY FCX LOCATION (%)
North America
Chile
Peru
Indonesia
Europe / Other
13% FCX Global Average
Our largest improvement in 2021 was at 
our El Abra operations in Chile, where 
the percentage of women employees 
increased by 3% year over year to 14%.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 61
FAIR & EQUAL REMUNERATION PRACTICES  
We are committed to respecting the rights of our workforce, including 
paying fair and equal wages. Our approach to compensation and benefits 
is market-based, competitive and informed by annual benchmarking and 
analysis. This includes equal pay for equal work and compensation levels 
that support the acquisition of the goods and services necessary for an 
average-size family to meet their basic needs in the geographic locations 
where we operate — often referred to as a living wage. 
We are committed to providing equal pay for equal work regardless of 
gender, race, ethnicity or any area protected by law. We periodically conduct 
internal compensation reviews to identify possible pay gaps which cannot be 
explained through performance, distribution of jobs, experience, time in role 
and other legitimate business-related factors. To further our commitment 
to provide equal pay for equal work and to support our global inclusion 
and diversity efforts, in 2021, we engaged a third-party compensation 
consultant, Mercer, to evaluate our gender pay equity practices across our 
global operations. The review included a robust statistical analysis and 
detailed compensation reviews of more than 24,000 employees globally. 
The initial results of this comprehensive gender pay evaluation showed that, 
worldwide, female employees were paid more than 99 cents on the dollar 
in the aggregate when compared to male employees. In addition, Mercer 
conducted a similar analysis to review race and ethnicity pay equity across 
our North American operations. In the U.S., Hispanic employees were paid 
more than 99 cents on the dollar in the aggregate when compared to White 
employees. The analysis showed that all other non-White employees in 
North America were paid in statistical parity with White employees. 
Following the results of the pay equity analysis, we conducted internal 
reviews for each pay gap identified, considered legitimate business factors 
related to pay such as performance and experience and, where appropriate, 
applied upward pay adjustments. Moving forward, and in recognition 
of evolving pay landscapes, we plan to conduct evaluations of our pay 
equity practices on a periodic basis and integrate key learnings into our 
compensation processes. 
Additionally, in 2021, we partnered with BSR, a global sustainability non-
profit, to conduct a living wage assessment for both full-time and part-time 
employees. The first phase of work included our largest 14 operating sites 
in the U.S., Chile, Peru and Indonesia. In late 2021, we completed phase 
two of the assessment, adding 23 additional sites, which include office 
locations, remediation and discontinued operations and smaller processing 
locations to complete our global assessment. BSR’s living wage benchmark 
exceeds the minimum wage in all of Freeport’s 37 locations assessed. The 
assessment found that of the more than 24,700 employees included in 
the assessment, all employees met BSR’s living wage benchmark for their 
respective locations. 
Moving forward, we plan to conduct employee living wage assessments on 
a periodic basis, and we will seek to integrate the results into our annual 
compensation review process across our global operations. We also will 
seek to extend our living wage commitment to our on-site contractors in 
the future.  
Cerro Verde operations, Peru.
 62
Communities & Indigenous Peoples
WHY IT MATTERS 
The relationship between a mining company and its neighboring communities is dynamic. Mining 
is an inherently cyclical business with production levels fluctuating over time. While copper and 
molybdenum mines typically have long lives, mining resources ultimately are finite. Increasing 
automation, technical innovation and shifts in the global economy are changing mining processes 
and labor requirements. Furthermore, many Indigenous Peoples have historically occupied or 
have ancestral connections to lands on or near mining operations. Mining companies must work 
collaboratively with host communities, including Indigenous Peoples, to build and maintain trust and 
to support them in developing the necessary skills and capabilities to adapt and succeed over the 
long term. This ongoing collaboration is critical to maintaining a social license to operate.
OUR APPROACH 
Freeport strives to work in partnership with our host communities and Indigenous Peoples to 
earn and maintain their trust and deliver shared value. We not only seek to avoid, minimize and 
mitigate adverse impacts from our operations but we also aim to provide long-lasting benefits to 
our neighbors. We work in partnership with our host communities — which in many cases includes 
Indigenous Peoples — to help build resilience and well-being at the individual and community level 
to help people thrive over the life of our mines and beyond. 
Proactive, ongoing engagements and constructive dialogue are foundational to our approach. This 
is how we understand actual, potential and perceived impacts on our host communities, build trust, 
and mutually identify the most relevant social investments and development priorities to address our 
impacts and support enhanced resilience. We also work actively through engagement and partnership 
activities to support host communities in maximizing the social and economic benefits of our operations. 
While we tailor our programs to site-specific dynamics of the operation and host communities, 
our overarching objectives in partnership with local stakeholders remain consistent. In summary, 
they are: (1) build enduring trust, (2) avoid, minimize or mitigate any adverse impacts from our 
operations, (3) maximize the positive benefits, and (4) support our communities in building the 
resilience necessary to thrive and adapt during and beyond the life of the mine.
Members of the Kamoro Indigenous community 
member near our operations in Papua, Indonesia.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 63
Policies & Programs 
▸	 Social Performance Policy – This policy outlines our commitment to 
engage and collaborate with local communities in an effort to avoid, 
minimize, mitigate and remedy adverse impacts while maximizing 
opportunities to deliver value from our presence. It also includes our 
commitment to work towards achieving the free, prior and informed 
consent (FPIC) of affected Indigenous communities.
▸	 Human Rights Policy – States our commitments to the International 
Bill of Human Rights, the UNGPs and the VPs in addition to our zero 
tolerance for human rights abuses at our operations and throughout 
our value chain.   
▸	 Social Performance Management System (SPMS) – This 
system operationalizes our policy commitments and documents and 
institutionalizes the actions, behaviors and expectations for how we 
interact with our communities, including Indigenous Peoples, across 
our global business. The SPMS applies to active and discontinued 
operations and new projects alike with the goal of driving robust and 
consistent social performance and critical internal coordination, 
communications and accountability. 
▸	 Social Performance Plans – Each operating mine site maintains a 
Social Performance plan that articulates site-specific activities that 
address the requirements of the SPMS in the local context, including 
risk management, engagement and development assistance for the 
communities near our operations, among other things.
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Traditionally, we engage with our host communities in person through 
Community Partnership Panels in the U.S., community engagement dialogue 
in South America, and Community Liaison Officers and Indigenous Council 
partnerships in Indonesia. All three models focus on consistent, proactive, 
transparent communications and dialogue, and all include local leaders 
and citizens who represent a broad range of stakeholder groups in each 
community. In addition, all of our operations engage with stakeholders 
frequently through situation- or topic-specific meetings, presentations, 
community affairs office hours, and other community outreach and 
engagement efforts. 
During the COVID-19 pandemic, many of our community engagement 
activities pivoted to virtual formats, which resulted in an increase in overall 
frequency and stakeholder participation in some communities. However, in 
some of our more remote communities, effective virtual engagements were 
challenging due to unreliable internet and limited mobile phone access. 
We sought to reach stakeholders in these communities by phone, when 
available, and in some instances, through socially distanced meetings. While 
in person engagement was still largely limited in 2021, we held more than 
4,500 formal community engagement meetings through our various models 
in some type of virtual or distanced format. 
The COVID-19 pandemic continued to underscore the importance of using 
our convening power to collaborate with various public and private partners 
in order to support our stakeholders with necessary resources. For example, 
as COVID-19 vaccines became available, we worked with public health 
officials and local community leadership to educate and promote vaccination 
efforts across our operations and host communities. 
We work in partnership with our host 
communities and Indigenous Peoples 
to earn and maintain their trust and to 
contribute to long-term shared value 
and resilience.
 64
OUR APPROACH WITH INDIGENOUS PEOPLES 
Indigenous Peoples have lived for thousands of years in aboriginal territories 
around the world. They often live in areas that collectively are home to areas of rich 
biodiversity and to many of the most diverse peoples, languages and cultures. 
We acknowledge and respect the social, economic and cultural rights of 
the Indigenous Peoples who have historically occupied areas on or near our 
operations or have ancestral connections to these lands, and we also understand 
that Indigenous Peoples often have special connections to land and water that 
can be tied to their physical, spiritual, cultural and economic well-being.
We are steadfast in our commitment to acknowledge, respect and engage 
collaboratively with Indigenous Peoples. We strive to understand the values 
and cultural needs of each Indigenous group; develop and maintain ongoing 
relationships, support effective, ongoing engagement and create opportunities 
for social benefit, shared value creation and long-term resilience. 
We do this through an approach called Building Trust, which aims to develop 
a consistent process with the objective of fostering trust through ongoing 
engagement, transparency and creating shared value. This approach began in 
North America and is informing our global engagement strategies with Indigenous 
Peoples, which we discuss in more detail on the following page.
We also are committed to adhering to the ICMM Position Statement on 
Indigenous Peoples and Mining, and we are dedicated to working towards 
obtaining FPIC for new projects and material expansions of existing projects 
where significant impacts are likely to occur.
Our stakeholder engagement program includes formal interactions with 
Indigenous Peoples in Papua, Indonesia; Native Americans in the U.S.; and the 
traditional communities of Alto El Loa in Chile. The adjacent table provides a 
listing of the Indigenous Peoples with whom we currently interact on a routine 
basis. This list is neither exhaustive nor static. For example, there are other 
Native American Tribes in the Southwestern United States whom we interact 
with on a limited basis. 
At Freeport, we acknowledge 
and respect the Indigenous 
Peoples who have historically 
occupied areas on or near our 
operations or have ancestral 
connections to these lands.
INDIGENOUS GROUPS/COMMUNITIES BY REGION/SITE
Southwestern U.S. (Arizona)
Hualapai Tribe  
Navajo Nation  
Pascua Yaqui Tribe  
San Carlos Apache Tribe  
Tohono O’odham Nation  
White Mountain Apache Tribe  
Yavapai Prescott Indian Tribe  
Yavapai-Apache Nation
El Abra (Chile)
Ascotán  
Ayllu Ojos de San Pedro  
Ayquina  
Caspana  
Chiu Chiu  
Conchi Viejo  
Coska  
Cupo  
Estación San Pedro  
Lasana  
Ollagüe  
Taira  
Toconce
PT-FI (Papua, Indonesia)
Amungme  
Damal  
Dani  
Kamoro  
Mee  
Moni  
Nduga
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 65
BUILDING TRUST WITH INDIGENOUS PEOPLES 
Over the last few years, we have focused on strengthening our work to build 
trust with Indigenous Peoples potentially impacted by our operations. This began 
with the recognition that our actions will either support or diminish trust with 
Indigenous Peoples. We know that trust is earned, and thus, the overarching, 
systemized approach seeks to facilitate trust through dialogue, ongoing 
relationships (versus transactional engagement), transparency and creating 
shared value. Over time, deeper trust among Freeport and Indigenous Peoples 
should enable a clearer path to FPIC when new expansions or projects are 
undertaken that may have significant adverse impacts on Indigenous Peoples.
In 2021, we applied the Building Trust approach at all of our Arizona and New 
Mexico sites in North America, and we held several internal sessions with our 
global social and leadership teams to socialize the Building Trust approach and 
its possible adaptation outside of the North American context. In 2022, we will 
be evaluating the ancestral tribal connections to our Climax and Henderson 
operations in Colorado. We also plan to update the standard operating procedure 
that guides this approach to share with our international sites so that it can be 
adapted for their site-specific circumstances.  
We began the Building Trust approach in North America in 2019 with a workshop 
facilitated by third-party experts in Indigenous relations. We wanted to better 
understand our current relationships with Native American Tribes and identify 
areas and key goals for improvement. Our internal Native American Affairs team, 
made up of professionals with diverse tribal heritage and experience, provided 
critical guidance and leadership through this effort, and they continue to do 
so on an ongoing basis. The team’s expertise, knowledge and perspective are 
invaluable to informing our practices. 
This approach succeeds through dedicated trust-building teams at our 
operations, placing the engagement strategy and execution in close proximity 
to our Indigenous neighbors. These cross-functional teams are responsible 
for understanding the values and cultural needs of each Indigenous group, for 
developing and maintaining ongoing relationships, for identifying and supporting 
effective engagements on a regular basis and for creating opportunities for 
social benefit.
BUILDING TRUST IN ACTION
Before we begin activities that cause a disturbance 
to land, we conduct a cultural resource survey 
to understand if plants, wildlife or other natural 
resources, or any artifacts found on the land are 
culturally significant to nearby Indigenous groups 
or groups that may have an ancestral connection to 
the area. We believe one of the best ways to build 
trust with tribal nations is through transparent, 
voluntary engagement in the management plan for 
any cultural resources found whether required by 
regulation or not. For example, prior to expanding a 
stockpile at one of our North American operations 
recently, we identified cultural artifacts in the project 
area. We voluntarily and proactively engaged eight 
federally recognized Native American Tribes with 
ties to the area to participate in discussions about 
the project and are actively seeking their feedback 
and recommendations for management of the 
cultural heritage resources, which will be ongoing 
throughout 2022.
Tohono O’odham Nation 
members participate in a 
native plant harvest at our 
Sierrita operations, Arizona.
 66
CULTURAL HERITAGE
Cultural heritage can be defined as Indigenous or other population’s assets 
and resources, including, but not limited to tangible assets such as places, 
buildings, and artifacts, or intangible assets such as practices, customs, 
religious/spiritual sites and shrines. We recognize that respecting and 
supporting the cultural heritage of our host communities, including our 
Indigenous neighbors, is critical to our ongoing social license to operate. 
While cultural resources linked to the heritage and history of an area are 
associated with a wide variety of people and places, within the context of 
mining we recognize it is critically important for Indigenous Peoples. 
We acknowledge that the nature and location of our mining and processing 
activities means we have the potential to impact cultural heritage. We seek 
to avoid, minimize or mitigate negative impacts to cultural heritage through 
planning and ongoing engagement with Indigenous and other impacted 
communities, including providing opportunities for stakeholders to identify 
any assets or resources that are culturally or traditionally significant and 
participating in decisions regarding their protection and management. 
We are guided by a fundamental commitment to respect and appreciate 
the cultural heritage of people in the communities where we operate. This 
promise is connected to our overarching commitments — such as Human 
Rights — and it manifests in the choices we make when our operations can 
adversely impact the culture of our communities and neighbors. 
Americas
In 2021, two technicians at our Safford operations in Arizona were picking 
up blast hole cuttings in the Lone Star pit when they identified fragments of 
turquoise. Safford's chief geologist recognized the importance and increasing 
rarity of turquoise, particularly to the nearby San Carlos Apache tribe whose 
members recognize it as sacred with deep philosophical and cultural meaning. 
As such, the Safford team donated several buckets full of turquoise in its raw, 
natural state to the San Carlos Apache Tribe’s Cultural Center for ceremonial use. 
At our El Abra operations in Chile, we recently launched the second phase 
of a Cultural Heritage Fund, an initiative that promotes the protection and 
conservation of the cultural heritage and archeology of the province of 
Alto El Loa. In 2021, we awarded grants to thirteen projects, which will be 
initiated in 2022.
In Peru, we aid an annual horse pilgrimage that passes through our Cerro 
Verde operations. We provide infrastructure and support to ensure people 
and their horses can cross over our operations safely to arrive at a culturally 
significant religious site. We also partner with the Catholic Church to 
maintain ecclesiastic monuments and with local authorities to preserve 
archeological artifacts in a Tambo Cultural (museum) in the Yarabamba 
District to help preserve Peru’s rich culture.  
Indonesia
In Indonesia, we are partnering with a local NGO that conserves, develops and 
promotes the disappearing Kamoro carving culture through buying Kamoro 
carvings, establishing exhibitions across Indonesia, and participating in 
Indonesian cultural events. Furthermore, PT-FI and local Indigenous Peoples 
councils collaborate on how to monitor the promotion of local indigenous 
cultural heritage in local schools through language programs, trainings 
for teachers, cuisine, and cultural rituals and events. The local university 
Cendrawasih supports this activity through capacity building training in 
monitoring tools and activities. We provide in-kind support to Rite-of-Passage 
rituals (Karapao) in two impacted Indigenous communities through land 
transportation, fuel for community boats and documentation of the rituals.
In 2021, Freeport geologists donated native 
turquoise to the San Carlos Apache Tribe 
near our Safford operations, Arizona.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
COMMUNITY RESILIENCE 
We are committed to working with local communities and Indigenous 
Peoples in the areas where we operate to build enhanced resilience and 
well-being in order to help communities and people thrive over the life of the 
mine and beyond. Partnering with communities to increase resilience means 
supporting their ability to better anticipate and navigate potential scenarios 
and to pivot and successfully adapt to unforeseeable events or conditions, 
such as the COVID-19 pandemic, impacts from climate change or changes in 
employment types and opportunities. This includes creating opportunities 
and activities that increase community-level capacity to maximize the 
economic opportunities in and beyond mining and increase long-term socio-
economic benefits. 
We believe we can best support community and Indigenous Peoples 
resilience by focusing our efforts in three main areas: (1) economic 
opportunity; (2) education and skill-building; and (3) community-
level capacity building. Within each of these three areas is a fundamental 
commitment to support the skills necessary to achieve the overarching 
goal of resilience.  
In 2021, much of our work continued to focus on helping our communities 
manage and adapt to the ongoing effects of COVID-19. We continued to 
provide dedicated resources and monetary and in-kind support and found 
ways to contribute to regional and national efforts. We remain focused 
on supporting our communities in their recovery from the impacts of 
COVID-19 through efforts linked to livelihood, such as jobs and income, 
and to learning, such as education and skills. Ultimately, these projects 
are intended to develop the economic opportunities that enable local 
communities to cultivate resilience and create conditions for 
long-term economic recovery.
 67
In 2021, much of our work 
continued to focus on helping our 
communities manage and adapt to 
the ongoing effects of COVID-19. 
Assisting Indigenous community 
businesses to prepare for pandemic 
protocol near our El Abra operations, Chile.
 68
Economic Opportunity 
By strengthening various local community support services and resources that are critical to enabling economic opportunity, we aim to contribute to overall 
community resilience and wellbeing. Our work includes supporting opportunities and access to capital for small businesses, promoting local sourcing opportunities 
for small businesses, enhancing basic infrastructure such as affordable housing and supporting widespread access to health and wellness services. 
Americas 
▸	 As part of a partnership with local authorities, we helped the Chilean 
government provide more than 1,700 COVID-19 vaccine doses to our 
workforce at El Abra. In Peru, we donated medical supplies including 
oxygen cylinders, concentrators, PPE and cold transportation and 
storage for vaccinations to the communities in and near Arequipa, 
and our health and safety teams at Cerro Verde trained community 
members on COVID-19 safety protocols when working with the public. 
In North America, we continued to deliver critical COVID-19 supplies 
to our tribal communities, support vaccination access and address 
other response and recovery efforts, such as helping small businesses 
access resources to restart or pivot to a new business model.
▸	 Our workforce and community members near our molybdenum 
operations in Colorado are facing challenges related to affordability 
and availability of housing. In response, we have invested in housing 
infrastructure and financial management programs to support 
residents on their path to home ownership. One of our partner 
organizations, Jane’s Place in Chaffee County, CO, takes a holistic 
approach to addressing both housing and workforce shortages by 
providing 17 affordable housing units onsite in addition to workforce 
training. Another partner organization, Chaffee Housing Trust, works 
with residents in Lake County, CO, on the steps to home ownership. 
▸	 At our Morenci operations, a partnership with the Town of Duncan 
and Midstate Energy was recently created to upgrade aging water, 
wastewater and energy infrastructure to prevent failures, reduce 
operating costs, and boost reliability and resiliency of the water system. 
A key component of the project is replacing the power supply for the 
wastewater treatment plant and primary municipal well with solar power 
systems to help reduce energy costs and consumption in the future. 
▸	 The Impulsa El Loa program at our El Abra operations helped 
develop and strengthen local small businesses by providing locally 
owned businesses, including Indigenous-owned businesses, with 
comprehensive training and financing support. Through this project 
and its platform, during 2021, El Abra awarded several contracts 
to local businesses such as a sulfuric acid unloading service, an 
environmental services business, a medical supplies transport 
service, green area maintenance business, and others. This initiative 
aims to promote local economic development by enabling local 
business to increase their revenue and create jobs.
A DreamBuilder graduate at her business 
near our Cerro Verde operations, Peru.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 69
Indonesia
▸	 Through our partnership with International SOS, during the year, 
PT-FI worked with the local government to provide COVID-19 
vaccinations to more than 63,000 employees, contractors and their 
families at its mining site in Papua. This included efforts to educate 
and vaccinate the artisanal miners at camps near our site. As 
COVID-19 surged in mid-2021, PT-FI began producing oxygen at a 
converted industrial site and donated concentrators to hospitals and 
healthcare clinics, including the Mimika Regency General Hospital, 
the Mitra Masyarakat Hospital and the Kuala Kencana Clinic. PT-FI 
also donated 50 cylinders of oxygen daily during the mid-year surge 
to two hospitals in Timika. 
▸	 Also in 2021, PT-FI assisted the Mimika local health authority in 
implementing its biennial basic health survey, which is ongoing in 
2022. The current survey covers thirty villages across the Mimika 
regency and includes a comprehensive set of medical tests of local 
community members across eleven villages in the Highlands and 
Lowlands. The local health authority is working with International 
SOS and national medical experts at the University of Indonesia 
and Udayana University to collect and analyze the data. The 
comprehensive survey information collected will be used to help 
inform community health conditions, to evaluate any potential 
impacts from our operations and to help guide the PT-FI public health 
partnership with the government into the future.
▸	 PT-FI also works with Mimika Diocese cooperative, Maria Bintang 
Laut, to build the capability of Indigenous women and youth in 5 
villages. In consultation with the Indigenous communities, the 
skill-building programs are aligned with their primary socio-
economic drivers and include courses in outboard motor repair, fiber 
boat construction, dried fish production and marketing, and sago 
flour production and marketing. Similarly, during the year, PT-FI’s 
community development group provided training and support to 
local farmer groups, cooperatives and entrepreneurs in sustainable 
coffee growing, processing, quality and marketing to assist them with 
entering national and international specialty coffee markets.
Participants from five villages participated 
in a fiber boat construction training 
provided by PT-FI in Papua, Indonesia.
 70
Education & Skill-Building
By increasing the quality, availability and access to education and skills training for people in our communities, we aim to improve socio-economic 
mobility, which in turn can help to build resilience for the long-term. This includes providing opportunities for people to gain and adapt skills that allow 
them to secure employment in the mining industry and its value chain.
Americas
▸	 We believe a  certificate or degree can create personal and 
professional opportunities and support greater economic and social 
mobility. In partnership with Education Forward Arizona, our Native 
American Scholarship Program provides scholarships to attend 
trade schools, 2-year community and tribal colleges, and 4-year 
universities and includes a personal success advisor for each student, 
helping them to navigate and overcome the challenges of college life 
and academics. This extra support significantly increases completion 
rates for these students who are often first-generation college 
attendees and enables a smoother transition to career. Over the last 
10 years, we have awarded 333 scholarships through this program. 
▸	 Likewise, our partnership with Earn to Learn (ETL) in Arizona is 
making higher education more accessible to students across the 
state. ETL is a matched-savings program that encourages students 
to save while also providing financial education and other support 
services. When participating students save $500 in a college savings 
account, ETL contributes 8 times the amount in one academic year. 
Participants then have access to $4,500 to spend on tuition, books, 
fees and other approved educational expenses per academic year. 
ETL reports a first-year college retention rate of nearly 90% for 
program participants and a six-year graduation rate of 83%.
▸	 In 2021, we partnered in the launch of a Workforce Development Center 
located in Grand County, Colorado, that is anticipated to train over 4,000 
people over a 10-year period. The development center aims to create 
new local and remote job opportunities for existing and prospective 
county residents through outreach, facilitation and job pairing and 
support new skills training initiatives including in areas of modern and 
digital office work, telecommuting and business skills training. 
Indonesia
▸	 We have engaged with Indigenous Peoples in Papua for decades 
through multiple formal agreements that seek to support individual 
workforce skills training, education and employability, among other 
initiatives. The Nemangkawi Mining Institute (NMI) in Papua, founded 
by PT-FI in 2003, was originally established with the aim of providing 
local Indigenous groups with the necessary skills and education to 
support their eligibility for employment at PT-FI and elsewhere. NMI 
currently offers four technical training programs in heavy equipment 
maintenance, heavy equipment operations, welding and electrical 
fields. In 2021, NMI added a life skills component to the curriculum 
and became certified as an Indonesian government-recognized, 
national vocational training institute.  Moving forward, NMI has plans 
to apply for government accreditation of its heavy diesel mechanic 
and heavy equipment operations programs. PT-FI’s goal is to expand 
NMI to include additional skills training focused on local labor 
market demand such as security, hospitality, coffee, and light vehicle 
maintenance by collaborating with local businesses, non-profit 
organizations, local government and other stakeholders. 
▸	 In 2021, FCX and PT-FI continued its joint mentorship initiative for 
Papuan university students studying in the U.S. Approximately 70% 
of enrolled students are women. We have identified additional FCX/
PT-FI mentors to partner with Papuan students studying in Australia. 
Throughout the year, mentors engaged with their students to discuss 
and support their health and wellbeing throughout the COVID-19 
pandemic as well as their financial well-being through a series 
of company-sponsored virtual workshops on managing personal 
finances. We are evaluating opportunities to continue expand the 
program post-graduation.
 71
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
Community-Level Capacity Building
By investing in capacity building and leadership development, we aim to better enable community-level institutions and their leaders, including local 
governments and nonprofits, to develop, improve or retain knowledge and skills that can help them become more effective and empowered in stewarding the 
community’s wellbeing and resilience over time. We view capacity building as a continuous effort to promote resilient and empowered citizens that can thrive 
during and beyond the life of the mine. 
Americas
▸	 We partnered with Local First Arizona to launch the Arizona Economic 
Recovery Center, which aims to increase the capacity of municipalities 
and non-profits to apply for and win competitive federal, state and 
foundation grants that address the economic impacts of COVID-19 
and build stronger local economies. The Center serves communities 
by identifying funding sources and specific federal and state grant 
opportunities, matching these grant opportunities to  needs and 
priorities of specific communities, and providing expert technical 
assistance and guidance in completing each grant application, 
with the goal of  increasing the success rate of securing funds. A 
similar initiative was also developed in Grant County, New Mexico, in 
partnership with the National Center for Frontier Communities. 
▸	 In the La Joya District, near our Cerro Verde operations in Peru, we 
partner with farmers to increase the efficiency and effectiveness 
of their agricultural practices. The program includes training on 
farming methods such as new ways to irrigate crops, as well as the 
development of business skills, enabling farmers to increase their 
productivity and ability to export their products and strengthening 
the agriculture sector as a whole. Additionally, Cerro Verde helps to 
strengthen small businesses through its support of the Center for 
Entrepreneurship and Business Development (called "EMPRENDE") 
which assists companies in the districts of Uchumayo, Tiabaya, 
Yarabamba and La Joya.  
Indonesia 
▸	 In 2019, a new Indonesian foundation called the Amungme and Kamoro 
Community Empowerment Foundation, or YPMAK, was established. 
YPMAK is a grant-making organization and aims to provide financial 
assistance for community-based programs and professional third-
parties to implement projects focused on health, education, economic 
development, training and small-scale infrastructure. Leaders from 
the local Indigenous groups and the local government manage this 
foundation with representation from PT-FI. The goal is for YPMAK 
to eventually achieve financial and managerial independence to 
strengthen the long-term effectiveness of PT-FI’s social investments. 
PT-FI is committed to providing funding based on its annual revenues to 
support the social and economic development of its local communities. 
In 2021, PT-FI committed approximately $109 million to social and 
economic development programs, including approximately $75 million 
to YPMAK and other Indigenous community organizations, bringing the 
total partnership and foundation-related funding to more than $935 
million since 1996. 
▸	 For many years PT-FI has worked closely with the local Mimika 
government in Papua to support the provision of health services in the 
region through capacity building, construction of clinics, and malaria 
control programs. In 2021, PT-FI transferred the management of 
three healthcare clinics to the local Mimika government, which 
was the final phase of the initiative to provide quality, sustainable 
healthcare services for community members in the Lowlands. This 
transfer was an important step towards supporting community-level 
resilience and empowering the government to manage community 
development programs.
 72
WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT & DEVELOPMENT
Women’s empowerment is a theme across our community engagement 
and investment work. We believe inclusive and diverse communities that 
enable full and equal participation of women are stronger, more stable and 
resilient over the long term. In addition to contributing to the UN SDGs, our 
empowerment initiatives seek to promote women’s rights through policy 
advocacy, leadership in the public and private sectors, small business 
training, supply chain access programs, and educational attainment. 
The largest of our economic empowerment programs, DreamBuilder — a 
free, online entrepreneurship training program for women — has reached 
enrollment of more than 123,000 women across 140 countries (primarily 
in the U.S., Chile and Peru where we operate). Now in its tenth year, the 
program seeks to equip women with the skills and confidence needed to 
become financially independent business owners. In 2021, graduates of the 
program applied their learnings to fashion, photography, and cosmetology, 
among other small businesses. 
Freeport partners with WEConnect International and Vital Voices to 
support women's empowerment and leadership. As both a member of, 
and long-standing partner with, WEConnect International, Freeport has 
helped to enable women business owners to compete for a greater share 
of private sector sourcing contracts, including identifying opportunities 
for women to participate in our own supply chain. Freeport is also the sole 
investor in VVEngage, a partnership with Vital Voices to advance women’s 
public leadership and the UN SDGs by conducting online and in-person 
training sessions with experts from the Vital Voices Global Network 
and professors from the Harvard Kennedy School of Government. The 
customized fellowship curriculum includes 9 months of rigorous courses 
in topics such as leadership, strategic communications, strategy and 
governance and supports the fellows to acquire specific skills to achieve 
their goals related to the advancement of the SDGs in their communities. 
Since its launch, 84 female fellows from 47 countries around the world  
have benefitted from VVEngage.
DreamCatcher graduates, Arizona.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 73
COMMUNITY GRIEVANCE MECHANISM 
To support constructive engagement and resolution of potential issues and adverse impacts, we 
maintain a site-level grievance mechanism where community members, including Indigenous 
Peoples, can register their complaints. The community grievance mechanism can serve as an early 
warning system by tracking trends and patterns in grievance types so they can be addressed in their 
earliest stages, ideally prior to further escalation. 
Our community grievance mechanism is available in local languages, with management protocols 
tailored to local culture, and serves as the system for documenting and tracking complaints or 
impacts as well as the type and timeliness of our response. Grievances typically are received by 
community engagement team members through in-person engagements at established company 
or community forums, in writing via physical drop boxes, or via local telephone hotlines. Grievances 
are routed to the site Community Grievance Officer, who records and relays the grievance to the 
appropriate department for evaluation. We work with community members to acknowledge and 
investigate the grievance, address the impact or problem, and where appropriate, provide remedy. 
For grievances with potentially high community impacts, senior management and applicable 
government authorities are engaged as appropriate. 
During 2021, our global operations recorded 172 community grievances, mostly regarding 
community benefits, environmental concerns, health and safety, and physical damage. Our web-
based grievance management system allows us to track grievances, identify thematic trends, report 
on resolutions, and measure our performance. 
During the year, we finalized updates to our Community Grievance Management standard 
operating procedure incorporating the effectiveness criteria outlined in the UNGPs. These 
updates standardized key processes and enabled a more consistent approach to documentation 
and resolution to community concerns. Additionally, training was refreshed and conducted 
for Grievance Officers to ensure consistent understanding and application of the grievance 
mechanism across our global sites. The updated standard operating procedure clarifies and 
enhances key definitions and the categorization protocols and requires more frequent grievance 
reviews on a quarterly basis with the corporate team to allow for more robust monitoring and 
trend identification. The quarterly reviews also help to improve consistency in application of the 
standard operating procedure globally. 
2021 GRIEVANCES
55+35+6+2+2+J
United States	
94
Indonesia	
60
Chile	
10
Peru	
4
Europe	
4
COMMUNITY
GRIEVANCES
TOTAL: 172
33+27+15+13+5+4+2+1+0+J
Community Benefits	
33%
Environment 	
27%
Health & Safety	
15%
Physical Damage 	
13%
Other1	
5%
Land Rights	
4%
Employment 	
3%
Cultural Heritage	
1%
GRIEVANCE
TOPICS (%)
1	 Other includes security, town site / housing 
and other grievances not listed above.
 74
Economic Contributions 
WHY IT MATTERS 
Mining operations can contribute to national, regional, and local 
development through employment opportunities, voluntary investments in 
communities and through taxes, royalties, and other financial obligations 
in jurisdictions where the operations are located. Transparent disclosure 
of our revenues and payments to host governments and investments in 
communities can promote better governance and accountability regarding 
the distribution of natural resource industry revenues.  
OUR APPROACH 
As an important part of our commitment to responsible production, Freeport 
aims to be a good corporate citizen in the host communities and countries in 
which we operate. We contribute to the wealth and prosperity of the countries, 
regions, and communities where we operate by generating economic value 
that includes tax and royalty payments, which support essential government 
functions such as education and infrastructure, local hiring and procurement 
that supports many types of jobs in a community or region, and other 
direct and indirect community investments. However, it is also important 
to recognize that mining is an inherently cyclical business with production 
levels and profits fluctuating over the life of the mine, which can impact our 
economic and social investments and other sustainability programs.  
ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTIONS & CASH PAYMENTS TO GOVERNMENTS 
In 2021, Freeport’s direct economic contributions totaled $15.5 billion, 
which includes $9.8 billion in payments to suppliers; $2.4 billion in 
employee wages and benefits; $1.6 billion in payments to providers of 
capital; $1.4 billion in taxes, royalties and other payments to governments; 
and $164 million in direct community investments. We also made 
investments of $2.1 billion in capital expenditures. 
Please refer to the key economic contributions and cash payments to 
governments tables in the Performance Data section of this report for 
more detailed financial information.
Freeport’s global tax strategy seeks to balance the economic considerations 
of our host governments and stakeholders with our business objectives. In 
jurisdictions where we conduct business, we advocate for the development 
and implementation of fair and predictable tax laws on issues that are 
important to our business and the industry. The Extractive Industries 
Transparency Initiative (EITI) is a global standard to promote transparent 
and accountable management of natural resources. We have endorsed 
and committed to support the EITI since 2008. In addition to our country-
level EITI commitments and regulatory reporting obligations, our practice 
is to provide transparency by voluntarily reporting cash payments to 
governments in all significant jurisdictions where we conduct business. 
Our support includes direct financial contributions as well as contributions 
through ICMM. We maintain significant mining operations in Indonesia and 
Peru, both of which have implemented EITI, and we actively support and 
participate in associated in-country processes as part of EITI.  
Management of our tax strategy is conducted within the corporate finance 
group under the direction of our Chief Financial Officer. Tax risks are identified 
and monitored by a global team of tax professionals, who assist in executing 
our tax affairs in line with our strategy, PBC and internal control policies. 
We are committed to fully cooperating with all tax authorities and providing 
access to accounting and governance documentation as requested.  
We contribute to the wealth and 
prosperity of the countries, regions, 
and communities where we operate by 
generating economic value. 
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 75
COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS 
We believe communities best understand their own needs and our ongoing engagements are 
designed to facilitate dialogue related to their needs and objectives as well as cultivate opportunities 
for partnership. We fund our social investment programs directly through each operation and their 
respective foundation or community trust fund. We encourage community-led processes that seek 
to empower stakeholders to help direct our investments to relevant programs that meet mutually 
defined goals and objectives. Annually, we seek to invest 1% of our revenue (based on a prior three-
year average) into community programs. Our revenue and corresponding community investments 
tend to vary year over year due to a variety of factors, including the cyclical nature of our business 
and community needs. Since community investment targets were first established in 2009, we have 
invested nearly $2.1 billion dollars in community development initiatives. 
2021 TOTAL
COMMUNITY
INVESTMENT 
$164
MILLION
$2.1
BILLION
CUMULATIVE 
INVESTMENT 
SINCE 2009
CONTRIBUTING TO THE UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were adopted by the United Nations 
in 2015 and seek to make the world more peaceful and prosperous for both people and planet. By 
supplying responsibly produced copper, we are proud to be a positive contributor to the world well 
beyond our operational boundaries. Being a responsible producer includes  contributing to relevant 
SDGs within our host communities and countries and across our value chains, while simultaneously 
seeking to mitigate any potential impediments to their realization. 
To some degree, Freeport works toward all 17 SDGs through aspects of our day-to-day work at our 
various global sites, partnership initiatives and social investments. SDG 12 — Responsible Consumption 
and Production — is central to our strategy of being foremost in the global copper industry. 
While we have been mapping our programs to all of the SDGs for many years, our eventual aim is to 
advance this work by more deliberately identifying and focusing on those goals where we believe 
we can make the most meaningful contribution. We plan to advance our understanding of both our 
positive and negative impacts on the SDGs, and we look forward to communicating our progress on 
our SDG prioritization in future reporting. In the interim, we have identified the SDGs that we believe 
our global programs contribute the most and sign-posted the relevant goals throughout this report.
Cerro Verde supports local outreach and 
education at schools near our operations in Peru.
 76
Our molybdenum operations in Colorado have been 
recognized multiple times by the Colorado Mining 
Association for their responsible practices in 
reclamation and environmental stewardship.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
THRIVING ENVIRONMENTS
Freeport recognizes that mining impacts the natural environment. We are committed to conducting our mining and 
processing operations in a manner that minimizes adverse impacts on the environment and supports protection 
of the natural environment and ecosystems through responsible environmental stewardship, strong management 
systems and continuous improvement.
Effective environmental protection and stewardship are key to ensuring the long-term viability of our business, 
including maintaining the necessary support from our host communities and governments. 
Our workforce incorporates environmental awareness into daily activities and implements actions that advance 
environmental protection. This reaches the highest level of our executive management, and the Board’s CRC provides 
oversight of management on the direction and effectiveness of our environmental practices, policies and programs.
Our Environmental Policy, most recently updated and approved by the CRC in December 2021, serves as the 
foundation for our protection of the natural environment in the regions where we live and work. In addition to 
adhering to strict compliance with laws and regulations, implementing risk management strategies based on 
verifiable data and sound science, we plan and conduct our operations in a manner that seeks to optimize the 
economic use of resources while minimizing adverse environmental effects, with a particular focus on climate, 
water, biodiversity and tailings and waste management. We review and account for the environmental impacts of our 
activities throughout the entire mining life cycle, including through mine closure. 
In 2021, following temporary production suspensions or decreases from COVID-19, we restarted operations at 
Chino, increased operating rates at El Abra to pre-COVID-19 pandemic levels and progressed the ramp-up of 
operating rates at Cerro Verde. Additionally, we completed the ramp-up of underground production at PT-FI, an 
important milestone that positions us to execute on our vision of being Foremost in Copper. As a result, the 2021 
versus 2020 data comparisons of many of our environmental indicators in the following section — including GHG 
emissions, water use, tailings and waste — reflect the increase in our activities to more normalized levels.  
 77
 78
Climate 
WHY IT MATTERS 
Climate change poses considerable near- and long-term challenges for 
society. Mining is energy-intensive and generates significant greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions, which contribute to climate change. However, the 
copper and molybdenum we produce plays an essential role in global 
decarbonization. It is a critical component in the technologies that will be 
deployed in a highly electrified and low-carbon economy, including solar and 
wind energy and electric vehicles. These technologies are critical to support 
the global energy transition needed to meet the Paris Agreement’s goals. 
OUR APPROACH 
As one of the world’s largest copper producers, we understand our critical 
role in the low-carbon energy transition. We are dedicated to supplying the 
global economy with responsibly produced copper which includes operating 
in a manner that manages and mitigates our GHG emissions and other 
climate-related risks and impacts.
Our climate strategy is founded on three pillars: Reduction, Resilience 
and Contribution.
▸	 Reduction
We strive to reduce, manage and mitigate our GHG emissions, where 
possible. In 2021, we built upon our initial public target to reduce 
our GHG emissions intensity in the Americas by 15% per metric ton 
of copper cathode with an additional commitment to reduce GHG 
emissions intensity in Indonesia by 30% per metric ton of payable 
copper, resolving to achieve both by 2030 from our 2018 baseline. 
We also plan to develop two additional 2030 GHG emissions 
reduction targets: one for our primary molybdenum sites and one 
for Atlantic Copper.  
▸	 Resilience 
We strive to enhance our resilience to both physical and transitional 
risks associated with climate change for our operations, our host 
communities and our stakeholders. This includes working proactively to 
analyze and prepare for an increase in extreme weather events, water 
stress and other climate change impacts while also supporting our 
host communities and responding to anticipated market and regulatory 
demands.
▸	 Contribution
We strive to be a positive contributor beyond our operational 
boundaries by responsibly producing copper and molybdenum that 
will support the technologies needed to enable the energy transition. 
This includes collaborating with partners in our value chain, and 
industry associations, to identify climate-related solutions that will 
support the transition to a low-carbon economy and ultimately meet 
the goals of the Paris Agreement. 
REDUCTION
RESILIENCE
CONTRIBUTION
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 79
In September 2021, we published our updated climate report, which outlines substantial progress 
in advancing our climate strategy and commitments, including the announcement of our aspiration 
to net zero by 2050 for our Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions. The report also provided an 
update on progress towards alignment with the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-
related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and our commitment to the Science Based Target Initiative 
(SBTi) for our interim 2030 targets. 
To learn more about our approach to climate, including our strategy, please read our 2020 Climate 
Report available on our website. We also plan to publish our 2021 Climate Report later this year, 
which will include an update on our continued progress against our climate strategy.
PERFORMANCE
Our global annual absolute GHG emissions (Scope 1 and 2) range between 7 to 8 million metric tons 
per year. Of this, approximately 70% comes from our FMC Mining operations in the Americas and 
Downstream Processing in the Americas and Europe, and 30% comes from our PT-FI operations in 
Indonesia. Over half of our FMC Mining and Downstream Processing GHG emissions are Scope 2 from 
purchased electricity; whereas PT-FI’s GHG emissions are all Scope 1 resulting from our coal-fired 
power plant (approximately 70%) that is currently used to generate reliable electricity for our remote 
operations in the eastern province of Papua, Indonesia, and the remaining 30% from diesel used to 
generate power and for mobile equipment. 
In 2021, our global absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions increased by 1.4% to 7.2 million metric tons 
from approximately 7.1 million metric tons the prior year. Emissions increased in conjunction with 
production rates at Cerro Verde, Chino and El Abra, following temporary production suspensions 
or reductions related to COVID-19. In addition, mining rates at PT-FI were higher following the 
complete transition to underground mining. Despite this increase, our absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG 
emissions in 2021 were 12% lower than 2018 levels (our target baseline year), due to significant 
improvements in energy efficiency and grid decarbonization. 
As one of the world’s 
largest copper producers, 
Freeport understands its 
critical role in the low-
carbon energy transition.
 80
Scope 3 emissions occur both upstream and downstream from our operations within the value chain. 
Upstream Scope 3 emissions result from production of materials and fuels that we use in our processing 
such as lime, explosives, chemical reagents and diesel, and downstream emissions result from 
transport, further refining or transforming of our copper into useable products, such as wire or sheet.
While Freeport has estimated select Scope 3 emissions categories for many years, in 2020 and 
2021, we have been working to enhance and expand our Scope 3 emissions calculations to include 
additional categories in line with the GHG Protocol. Our 2021 Scope 3 emissions are currently 
estimated to be 22% of Scope 1, 2 and 3 combined emissions. Please refer to our 2020 Climate 
Report for more information on our revised calculations. Our Scope 3 emissions calculation effort 
is ongoing with the aim of reporting across all relevant Scope 3 emissions sources identified in the 
GHG Protocol in our updated Climate Report later this year. 
We calculate our GHG emissions inventory using the WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG 
Protocol), using a software platform called Enablon to gather data from our sites. Each year, a 
third party verifies our GHG emissions inventory against the ISO 14064 GHG emissions standard 
and provides an assurance statement, which can be found in the Performance Data section of this 
report and on our website. 
GHG EMISSIONS
SCOPE 1 + 21 (CO2e METRIC TONS)
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
FMC Mining2
5,113,226
4,824,714
4,950,131
4,468,291
4,365,377
Downstream Processing3
585,688
686,062
627,132
587,200
539,869
PT-FI (Grasberg)
2,257,149
2,651,587
2,212,265
2,034,939
2,284,467
Scope 1 + 2 Total - FCX Global 
7,956,062
8,162,363
7,789,529
7,090,429
7,189,714
SCOPE 3 (CO2e METRIC TONS)
Scope 3 Total - FCX Global 
706,214
750,332
692,336
1,729,251
1,996,723
1	 2017 Scope 2 emissions were calculated using a location-based method; since 2018, Scope 2 emissions have been calculated using a market-based method with the exception of Bayway Rod & Wire, Norwich Rod, El Abra, Fort Madison, 
Kokkola and Stowmarket which are calculated using location-based grid factors and amount to less than 9% of our total Scope 2 emissions. The market-based calculation of Scope 2 emissions incorporates emissions factors that are 
available at the time of inventory close. Emission factors are determined by each market according to their reporting schedule. Therefore, certain emissions factors used in market-based calculations may be up to one year in arrears due to 
lag time. As required by the GHG Protocol, FCX’s location-based 2021 Scope 2 emissions are reported in the back of this report. 	
	
	
	
2	 FMC Mining includes Bagdad, Cerro Verde, Chino (including Cobre), Climax, El Abra, Henderson, Morenci, Safford (including Lone Star), Sierrita and Tyrone. 	 	
	
	
3	 Downstream Processing includes Atlantic Copper Smelter & Refinery, Bayway Rod & Wire, Ft. Madison Moly Special Products, Kokkola Cobalt Refinery, Miami Smelter & Rod, Norwich Rod, Rotterdam, Stowmarket and El Paso Refinery & Rod.
Note: GHG emissions data have been prepared in accordance with the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol. FCX reports carbon emissions on 100% operational basis. FCX's GHG emissions verification statement is available at fcx.com/sustainability.
Multiple GHG emissions 
reduction initiatives are 
either already in process or 
are under evaluation across 
our global business.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 81
REDUCTION 
Multiple GHG emissions reduction initiatives are either already in process or are under evaluation 
across our global business. Collectively, these initiatives are the foundation that will help us develop 
and further define our roadmap to achieve our current 2030 GHG emissions intensity reduction 
targets. These initiatives fall into four primary categories: 
1.	 Decarbonizing our electricity supply by converting power supplies to renewable energy on 
the grid through power purchase agreements (PPAs) and through site-related renewables 
projects to reduce our emissions;  
2.	 Optimizing energy and asset efficiency;  
3.	 Electrification of equipment to reduce use of diesel; and 
4.	 Process innovation
In 2022, working with a third-party consultant, we initiated a project to complete abatement 
curves at four of our sites (PT-FI, Cerro Verde, Bagdad and Atlantic Copper), which will support 
our evaluation and prioritization of projects across our decarbonization categories, and establish a 
process for completing similar abatement curves across the global business. 
43+30+11+8+7+1+J
Natural Gas	
43%
Hydro	
30%
Coal, Other Fossil Fuels	11%
Solar, Wind, Geothermal	 8%
Nuclear	
7%
Other	
1%
2021
PURCHASED POWER
BY SOURCE
(%) 61+32+7+J
FMC Mining	
61%
PT-FI	
32%
Downstream Processing	 7%
2021
GHG EMISSIONS
BY BUSINESS AREA1
(%)
50+28+22+J
Scope 1	
50%
Scope 2	
28%
Scope 3	
22%
2021
GHG EMISSIONS
BY TYPE
(%)
1	 Refer to page 84 for business area descriptions.
 82
Climate Reduction Targets
We currently have two GHG emissions (Scope 1 and 2) reduction targets for our business in order to 
help manage relevant, climate-related risks and support the decarbonization of our business. The 
first target, established in 2020, seeks to reduce the GHG emissions intensity of Freeport Americas 
Copper operations by 15% from our 2018 baseline. The second, established in 2021, seeks to reduce 
the GHG emissions intensity of our Indonesia operations by 30% by 2030, from our 2018 baseline.  We 
are currently developing two additional targets for our Atlantic Copper and our primary molybdenum 
operations (Climax and Henderson mine and downstream processing at Ft. Madison, Rotterdam, and 
Stowmarket). Together these operations make up approximately 5% of our total Scope 1 and 2 GHG 
emissions inventory. We plan to announce these targets with our 2021 Climate Report. 
We have signed a commitment letter and plan to submit our interim 2030 GHG emissions 
reductions targets to SBTi, a widely accepted standard for GHG emissions reduction goals, 
for validation. Validating our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions reduction targets against the SBTi 
criteria is critical to understanding if our targets are consistent with the level of decarbonization 
required to keep global temperature increase to 1.5°C compared to preindustrial temperatures. 
We acknowledge that future adjustments to our existing targets may be required as a result of the 
SBTi validation process, and we plan to provide an update on our progress in future reporting.
Freeport aspires to 
participate in — and 
positively contribute 
to — a 2050 net zero 
economy. 
2030 GHG EMISSIONS INTENSITY REDUCTION TARGETS 
REGION / BUSINESS UNIT
TARGET 
BASIS
INTENSITY REDUCTION1 
2018 
BASELINE YEAR 
2030
TARGET YEAR 
Freeport Americas Copper2
Intensity 
15% reduction per metric ton of copper cathode
3.72
3.17    
PT-FI (Grasberg)3
Intensity 
30% reduction per metric ton of payable copper
4.76
3.34
1 	 Intensity reduction targets (CO2e metric tons / metric ton cu) include total (Scope 1 and 2) GHG emissions and do not include by-products in the denominator. Baseline and target 
are calculated (total emissions / payable copper or cathode), and therefore, may differ due to rounding error. 
2	 Freeport Americas Copper (for target) includes Bagdad, Cerro Verde, Chino (including Cobre), El Abra, Morenci, Safford (including Lone Star), Sierrita and Tyrone mines as well 
as downstream processing at the Miami Smelter and El Paso Refinery. The Freeport Americas Copper intensity reduction target includes all payable copper forms up to cathode 
(which includes concentrate, anode, and cathode) but excludes rod and wire.  
3 	 Our PT-FI intensity reduction target is based on payable copper produced in concentrate. PT-FI concentrate is currently smelted and refined by PT Smelting (PTS) and third-party 
smelters / refineries, which are currently accounted for as Scope 3 emissions and not included in this target. Upon completion of the PTS expansion and the construction of the 
new greenfield smelter at Gresik, GHG emissions for smelting and refining are expected to shift from Scope 3 to Scopes 1 or 2, and we will adjust our target and baseline in line 
with the GHG Protocol at such time.  
An autonomous electric train 
system moves ore through 
underground tunnels at our 
PT-FI operations in Indonesia.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 83
Americas Copper 
Below we illustrate the absolute emissions and production intensity 
performance of Freeport Americas Copper operations. On an absolute 
basis, we have reduced our GHG emissions from Freeport Americas 
Copper operations to approximately 4.5 million metric tons, which is 
9% lower than 2018 (target baseline) emissions and 3% lower than 
2020. Performance against our 2030 intensity target is shown with the 
dotted copper line. In 2021, performance against our Americas target 
improved by 5.8% compared to the prior year, and 3.7% since 2018. 
In late 2019, a large coal power station in Arizona was permanently 
shut down which has had a positive impact on the carbon intensity of 
our Morenci mine. Due to the lag time in emissions factor updates, the 
improvement was not realized until 2021. In addition, our Miami smelter 
is now receiving 6% renewables from a 9.3 MW contract with Saint 
Solar. Further, increased production at Chino, Safford and Cerro Verde 
contributed to our intensity performance. In support of our 2030 target, 
we continue to advance our Copper Skies initiative aimed at integrating 
more renewables into our electricity supply and to seek lower carbon 
options for both haulage and support equipment for our mines.
Indonesia
We also illustrate the absolute emissions and production intensity 
performance of our underground mining operations in Indonesia. On an 
absolute basis, we have reduced our emissions to approximately 2.3 million 
metric tons, which is 14% lower than 2018 (target baseline) emissions. 
Performance against our 30% emissions intensity target is shown with the 
dotted orange line. In 2021, a significant improvement was made against 
our intensity target — a 22% improvement since 2018 — largely driven by 
completion of the underground transition at Grasberg. 
Overall energy requirements at PT-FI are expected to increase due 
to ventilation needs and ore body characteristics that require more 
intensive processing. To support this, PT-FI is developing a new 129MW 
dual fuel power plant (DFPP) at our port facility. The DFPP is expected 
to be commissioned and permitted in 2022 using biodiesel. We are also 
undertaking feasibility studies to determine the viability to eventually 
transition the DFPP and the coal-fired power plant to liquefied natural gas 
(LNG) in the future.
2021
2017
2018
2019
INDONESIA GHG EMISSIONS REDUCTION PERFORMANCE1,2
8,000
6,000
4,000
2,000
0
8.00
6.00
4.00
2.00
0.00
METRIC TONS CO2e (THOUSANDS)
METRIC TONS CO2e  /  METRIC TON CU
Intensity 
(Metric Tons C02e / 
Metric Ton Cu)
Scope 1 Emissions - 
Metric Tons C02e
2030 Target
1	  PT-FI does not generate Scope 2 emissions. As such, the PT-FI intensity reduction target includes total Scope 1 
emissions only. The target excludes Scope 3 and does not include by-products in the denominator. The baseline 
and target are calculated (total emissions / payable copper) and may differ due to rounding error. 
2 	 Our PT-FI intensity reduction target is based on payable copper produced in concentrate. PT-FI concentrate is 
currently smelted and refined by PTS and third-party smelters / refineries, which are currently accounted for in 
our Scope 3 emissions estimates (not included in the target). Upon completion of the PTS expansion for which 
PT-FI will have majority ownership and the construction of the new greenfield smelter at Gresik, GHG emissions 
for smelting and refining are expected to shift from Scope 3 to Scopes 1 or 2, and we will adjust our target and 
baseline in line with the GHG Protocol at such time. 
Note: GHG emissions data have been prepared in accordance with the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol. FCX reports carbon 
emissions on 100% operational basis.
2020
AMERICAS COPPER GHG EMISSIONS REDUCTION PERFORMANCE
Actual — Absolute
Actual — Production Intensity
2030 Target
CO2e = carbon dioxide equivalent.
2017 
2018 
2019 
2021
6,000
5,000
4,000
3,000
2,000
1,000
0
5
4
3
2
1
0
METRIC TONS CO2e (THOUSANDS)
METRIC TONS CO2e  /  METRIC TON COPPER CATHODE
2020
 84
AGGRESSIVE CLIMATE ACTION (1.5ºC)
Global collaboration to reduce GHG 
emissions to meet Paris Agreement goals 
and reduce emissions to net zero by 2050
MODERATE CLIMATE ACTION (~2.5ºC)
Uncoordinated response based on 
announced policy commitments is insufficient 
to meet the Paris Agreement goals
CURRENT STATE (~4.0ºC)
GHG emissions continue to increase 
with no changes to current policies 
leading to significant physical risks
Lower GHG emissions, increasing transition risks and opportunities
Higher GHG emissions, increasing physical risk
RESILIENCE
Freeport strives to enhance our resilience to both physical and transitional risks associated with 
climate change for our operations, our host communities and our stakeholders. This includes 
working to analyze and prepare for an increase in extreme weather events, water stress and other 
potential climate change impacts.
In early 2021, we completed our first global climate change scenario analysis considering both physical 
risks and transition risks and opportunities across three different climate scenarios: Current State 
(i.e., mostly unconstrained GHG emissions), Moderate Climate Action (i.e., moderately constrained 
GHG emissions) and Aggressive Climate Action (i.e., action in line with net zero by 2050). In general, 
the results of the analysis demonstrate that physical risks are highest for Freeport in the Current 
State scenario and lowest in the Aggressive Climate Action scenario. Conversely, transition risks and 
opportunities are highest in the Aggressive Action scenario and lowest in the Current State Scenario.
Our scenario analysis identified potential physical risks that may impact our sites across four main 
themes: wet extremes, heat extremes, emerging water stress and sea level rise. We currently have 
additional analysis underway using more localized models to better understand each of these 
themes and their potential impacts at the sites identified with this highest potential risk including 
work with third-party experts to develop regional and local data sets, which will enable us to 
better evaluate the potential effects of sea level rise under each scenario at our port locations and 
precipitation at all operating locations. From a transition risk perspective, our analysis indicated 
that Freeport must continue to monitor evolving carbon and energy policies and prices and evaluate 
the potential implications for our business. In addition, we may face challenges from sulfur supply 
deficits and price volatility if demand for oil and gas sharply declines, and refineries and natural gas 
processing plants that produce sulfur are decommissioned. We are undertaking a market study in 
2022 to better understand this potential challenge. To learn more about our global climate scenario 
analysis, please read our 2020 Climate Report.
We are preparing for 
exposure to the various 
physical and transition risks 
identified in our analysis.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 85
CONTRIBUTION
The downstream use of copper is a critical enabler for the technologies that will support the global 
energy transition, from electrifying vehicles to solar and wind energy. Contributing nearly 9.5% of 
total worldwide mined copper production, Freeport’s role in supplying responsibly produced copper 
to support global decarbonization is crucial and we are committed to doing our part, both within our 
own operational boundaries and beyond. 
Freeport is uniquely positioned due to our vertical integration of both copper and molybdenum 
production, enabling us to directly manage and work towards mitigating the emissions associated 
with our products that would for many producers be downstream in their value chain. We also 
seek to collaborate with our industry, customers and other stakeholders to drive change, whether 
in responsible production certifications, developing carbon footprint models or advancing policy 
on climate.
In 2021, we worked with our industry peers and third-party experts at ICA as part of the Global 
Copper Decarbonization Roadmap project, endeavoring to develop a methodology for estimating 
copper’s carbon footprint. The project completed development of a global average carbon footprint, 
including all scopes (1, 2 and 3) of GHG emissions. At the same time, ICA is working to update their 
global cathode Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) profile, to enable downstream users of copper to 
better evaluate their environmental footprints across a multitude of environmental aspects — not 
just carbon. Freeport has played a key role in this work, providing data from our mining and refining 
facilities and providing feedback in the development of the methodology. This study remains in 
progress with expected publication of both an updated LCA profile, carbon footprint average for the 
industry and guideline for its calculation in 2022.
Mangrove growth near our Grasberg 
minerals district, Indonesia.
 86
Access to safe water is a 
fundamental human right 
and it is essential to the 
well-being of communities 
and the environment.
Water Stewardship
WHY IT MATTERS
Access to safe water is a fundamental human right and it is essential to the well-being of 
communities and the environment. It is also necessary for mines, smelters, processing facilities and 
reclamation projects. Effective management of water resources can reduce the impact of mining 
activities on water availability and quality while respecting the rights of others.
OUR APPROACH
Water is essential to our work and vital to the long-term sustainability of the company and our host 
communities. We cannot operate without water and Freeport understands the critical importance of 
managing the impacts of our activities on water availability and quality and respecting the rights of 
our host communities and Indigenous neighbors.
Freeport’s water stewardship program focuses on maximizing our water use efficiency within our 
operations so that we can minimize our use of new freshwater taken from the natural environment. 
We are also focused on shifting our water supplies to more sustainable sources (recycled, reused, 
renewable and lower quality sources), minimizing negative impacts from our operations on water 
quality and availability in the local catchments, and supporting the development of access to 
previously unknown, unavailable, or undeveloped water resources.
In addition to focusing on our own water-related supply risks surrounding our operations, water 
stewardship also means we are focused on promoting long-term water security for all. We recognize 
the importance of working collaboratively with our stakeholders to secure access to water in a 
socially and environmentally responsible manner, and we are dedicated to continuously improving 
our water programs over time.
The global nature of our operations requires a tailored, site-specific approach to our water strategy. 
Many of our operations are in arid environments where there is significant competition for water. 
Conversely, our Colorado and Indonesia operations present a different challenge: receiving so much 
rainfall that considerable effort goes into managing excess water supply.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 87
The global nature of our  operations 
requires a tailored, site-specific 
approach to our water strategy.
Policies & Programs
Globally, our objective is to identify, manage and mitigate both our current 
and future water-related risks to secure the necessary water resources vital 
to support our operations over the long term, while equitably supporting the 
rights and well-being of our local community partners and ecosystems.
Our global water management program goals are the following: (1) improve 
water use efficiency in our processes, (2) minimize use of new freshwater at 
our operations, (3) reduce our water footprint by transitioning to renewable, 
recycled and / or lower quality water sources, and (4) monitor our impact 
on the surrounding communities and environment by continually reviewing 
our water supplies and new technologies that can support the reduction of 
future water requirements.
We support, and are in the process of implementing, the ICMM Water 
Position Statement, which outlines our commitment to public reporting and 
responsible water use, including strong and transparent water governance, 
effective water management and collaboration towards achieving 
responsible and sustainable water use.
Reclamation at our Miami 
mine & smelter, Arizona.
 88
Understanding Our Water Supply Risks
Our global operations are in geographically and climatically diverse locations that range from arid 
deserts in Arizona, U.S., to extremely arid and high altitudes in the Atacama Desert in Calama, Chile, 
to one of the wettest places on earth in Papua, Indonesia. In many instances, we share a freshwater 
source or catchment with other users, such as our local host communities, municipalities, and 
agricultural or industrial organizations.
The number of water risk regions with poor water quality or scarce supply is increasing globally. This 
is heightened by the drought conditions currently in the southwest United States and South America. 
In the United States, we continue to monitor the water levels in the Colorado River and possible 
impacts on our operations and communities. Our water resources are not expected to be impacted 
in 2022, and we seek to work closely with our Indigenous neighbors and host communities to assess 
and mitigate any potential future impacts. In some areas of the world, water stress is increasing due 
to growing populations in communities where multiple new regional users are accessing limited 
freshwater sources. Per our recent climate scenario analysis, we recognize that potential future 
climate scenarios may exacerbate these trends.
To effectively manage our water-related risks in the near-term, we seek to understand the various and 
continually changing physical environments, hydrological systems, and sociopolitical and regulatory 
contexts of each of our operations. The context and near-term water supply risks that exist near our 
operations are summarized in the table on the following page. Risk considerations include climate 
conditions, water sources, baseline water stress, excess water, litigation and access challenges. 
Our water risk assessment is an iterative process that we aim to update periodically. Over time, we 
plan to assess and, when appropriate, integrate additional critical risks to our water supply risk 
analysis — such as water quality, reputational risks, and shared water resource management — and 
in due course, the potential longer-term impacts associated with climate change. As noted in the 
previous section, as part of our effort to understand longer-term climate-related risks, we recently 
completed our first global climate scenario analysis which considered potential physical risks across 
three different scenarios in 2030 and 2050. Several of the potential physical risks identified are 
water-related and we are in the process of conducting more localized studies to better understand 
these risks at a site-level. To read more about our global climate scenario analysis, please read our 
2020 Climate Report.
Environmental team member 
conducts water sampling at our 
Tyrone operations, New Mexico.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 89
Developing Alternative Water Sources
We are focused on diversification of our water sources — reducing our 
dependence on traditional freshwater sources and transitioning to non-
traditional or alternative sources, such as effluent, or municipal wastewater. 
By using effluent to support our water requirements, we can help to reduce 
the strain on traditional, freshwater sources in our local catchments, 
which often are shared with our neighboring communities. We currently 
use effluent to support our water supply requirements at several of our 
operations, including Morenci, Miami, and Bagdad in Arizona, at Chino in 
New Mexico and at Cerro Verde in Peru. We also are currently exploring the 
potential for using effluent at our Sierrita mine in Arizona.
Our “virtuous cycle of water” program at Cerro Verde serves as a model. To 
support water requirements for mining and processing and to support our local 
communities, Cerro Verde has made significant investments in local water 
infrastructure including constructing dams, potable water lines, a waste water 
treatment plant (WWTP) and main sewage collectors. This infrastructure 
intercepts the effluent in the town of Arequipa and pipes it to the WWTP. Cerro 
Verde sources approximately 50% of its process water from the treated effluent 
produced by the WWTP and the remaining half of treated effluent is discharged 
back into the Chili River for agricultural uses, such as irrigation and other 
benefits to the community.
WATER SUPPLY RISKS
OPERATION
CLIMATE CONDITIONS1
WATER SOURCES2
WATER SUPPLY RISKS
WATER STRESS3
EXCESS WATER4
ACCESS 
CHALLENGES5
Bagdad (Arizona)
Arid; Semi-desert
Groundwater, Surface water, Stormwater, Third party6
Low-Med
Cerro Verde (Arequipa, Peru)
Arid; Desert
Groundwater, Surface water, Stormwater, Third party6
High
X
Chino (New Mexico)
Arid; Semi-desert
Groundwater, Stormwater, Third party6
Low-Med
Climax (Colorado)
Snow; Fully humid
Groundwater, Surface water, Stormwater
Low-Med
El Abra (Calama, Chile)
Arid; Desert
Groundwater, Stormwater
Extremely High
X 
Henderson (Colorado)
Snow; Fully humid
Groundwater, Surface water, Stormwater
Med-High
X
Miami (Arizona)
Arid; Semi-desert
Groundwater, Surface water, Stormwater, Third party6
Med-High
X
X
Morenci (Arizona)
Arid; Semi-desert
Groundwater, Surface water, Stormwater, Third party6
Med-High
X
PT-FI (Papua, Indonesia)
Tropical; Fully humid
Groundwater, Surface water, Stormwater
Low
X
Safford (Arizona)
Arid; Semi-desert
Groundwater, Stormwater
Med-High
X 
Sierrita (Arizona)
Arid; Semi-desert
Groundwater, Stormwater
Med-High
X
Tyrone (New Mexico)
Arid; Semi-desert
Groundwater, Surface water, Stormwater
Low-Med
1 	 Climate conditions based on the Köppen-Geiger climate classification terminology.
2 	 Water sources can include groundwater, surface water, stormwater, sea water or third-party sources (including effluent).
3	 Baseline water stress ratings are defined by a combination of the World Resources Institute’s (WRI) Aqueduct tool and its associated descriptors for baseline water stress, as well as our own qualitative assessments and local knowledge of 
the site-specific circumstances of withdrawal at each operation. The WRI Aqueduct tool measures baseline water stress as the ratio of total water withdrawals (including domestic, industrial, irrigation, and livestock consumptive and non-
consumptive uses) to available renewable surface (including the impact of upstream consumptive water users and large dams on downstream water availability) and groundwater supplies. WRI classifications are as follows: low (<10%); low 
to medium (10–20%); medium to high (20–40%); high (40–80%); extremely high (>80%); arid and low water use; and no data.
4 	 Large-scale water treatment plants have abated excess water risk at sites which would otherwise be considered at-risk.
5 	 Access challenges can include legal challenges or potential changes in law or regulations that could impact our access to certain water supplies.
6 	 Third-party water sources are primarily sourced from wastewater effluent.
 90
PERFORMANCE
Our company-wide water balance demonstrates how much water we withdraw, consume and 
discharge. We obtain new water through permits, legal rights, and leases for groundwater, 
including the dewatering of our mines, rainfall or stormwater and surface water sources, 
such as lakes or rivers. At certain operations, water also is sourced from third-party sources 
(predominantly effluent). New water withdrawn from these sources, together with reused and 
recycled water from our ore processing plants, water treatment plants, and tailings facilities make 
up the total water used across our global operations. 
Each site maintains a water balance to quantify their water use, consumption, storage and discharge 
volumes. The water balance, coupled with the use of ground water and hydrologic models, are used 
to track operational performance and to address challenges and opportunities related to water 
availability and water quality. 
With this information, we can identify opportunities to minimize water loss, such as evaporation, 
maximize recycling and reuse, and maintain compliance with quality standards. Taken together, these 
ongoing studies inform our efforts to reduce our overall water utilization — including requirements for 
new freshwater — where operational efficiencies and production requirements allow.
As responsible water stewards, we focus on 
minimizing our impacts on shared resources, 
while supporting the long-term resilience of our 
operations, host communities and the environment.
Morenci operations, Arizona.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 91
TOTAL INPUTS
297,170
WATER INPUTS
TOTAL OUTPUTS
290,841
WATER OUTPUTS
TOTAL RECYCLED / REUSED
1,325,184
OPERATIONS
Processing Plants
Tailings / Waste Storage
Storage
Treatment
RECYCLED RATE
82%
Most water needs 
are met with the
RECYCLING 
AND REUSE
of water within 
our operations
87% WATER USE EFFICIENCY  
2021 WATER BALANCE (THOUSAND M3)
Water recycle / reuse 
rate = total water 
reused + recycled / 
Total water utilized
Water use efficiency 
= total water reused 
+ recycled / (Total 
water utilization – 
Discharged Water)
38+19+14+18+11+J
64+36+J
Groundwater	
38%
Surface water	
19%
Sea water	
14%
Stormwater	
18%
Third-party sources	
11%
Consumption	
64%
Discharge (off-site)	
36%
 92
Water Use Efficiency
Our objective to maintain high rates of recycled or reused water remained unchanged, and our water 
efficiency performance has met or exceeded 87% in recent years. In 2021, we used more water 
compared to the prior year, largely related to higher production and mill rates at PT-FI and Cerro 
Verde. In 2021, our operations used a total of 1,622,354 thousand cubic meters of water, including 
new freshwater withdrawals of 297,170 thousand cubic meters. Of our total water use, 82% was 
from recycled or reused sources. By accounting for discharge quantities of 106,127 thousand cubic 
meters, our water use efficiency was 87% in 2021.
WATER PERFORMANCE
(THOUSAND CUBIC METERS)
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
Total New Water Withdrawn1
275,037
310,620
302,564
261,299
297,170
Total Water Recycled / Reused
1,285,206
1,377,971
1,408,513
1,231,053
1,325,184
Total Utilized Water
(Withdrawn + Recycled / Reused)
1,560,243
1,688,591
1,711,077
1,492,352
1,622,354
Water Recycle / Reuse Rate2
82%
82%
82%
82%
82%
Total Water Discharged3
N/A
106,183
95,885
101,963
106,127
Water Use Efficiency4 (%)
N/A
87%
87%
89%
87%
1	 New water withdrawal includes new water that is received or extracted by operation and used for the first time. New water withdrawals include high quality 
freshwater and lower quality water and are categorized by type: groundwater, surface water, stormwater, sea water or third-party water. Water withdrawals 
exclude water diverted away from operational areas without use.	
	
	
	
2	 Water recycle / reuse rate = (total water recycled + reused) / total water utilized.	
	
	
	
3	 Water discharged is water removed from an operation and returned to the environment or a third-party after meeting all required treatment and discharge 
standards. In 2018, we began calculating water discharged and water use efficiency rate.	 	
	
	
4	 Water use efficiency rate = total water recycled + reused / (total water utilization – discharged water).	
	
	
	
RECYCLED WATER VS. NEW WATER USE
THOUSAND CUBIC METERS
Recycled / Reused Water
New Water Withdrawn
2017 2018 2019 2020
2021
2,000,000
1,500,000
1,000,000
500,000
0
We utilized 
4X MORE 
recycled water than 
new water in 2021.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 93
RESILIENCE AND PREPARING FOR THE LONG TERM
Some of our operations are situated in challenging environments where 
enhancing resilience to the impacts of water risks is a critical part of our daily 
operations. This includes the health, safety, and production risks of heavy 
rains, arid environments, or heat-related occupational illness. To prepare our 
operations for potentially severe weather-related events in the future, we aim 
to take a holistic approach to risk management and preventive planning. 
Company-wide processes to address risks, including climate, seek to cover 
the full life cycle of our assets — from a pre-project sustainability review 
process to resiliency planning for reclamation and closure. 
The results of the climate scenario analysis completed in 2021 will help us to 
enhance these processes. Each of our sites use water balance models with 
robust precipitation forecast mechanisms, including available information 
on historical weather patterns at the regional level that provide data on 
potential severe climate patterns. 
These models consider the effects of short-term extreme weather events 
as well as prolonged wet and dry seasons and enable the teams to take a 
probabilistic approach when considering various scenarios in our risk reviews. 
As information in this area becomes more actionable, we have processes 
in place that will allow us to consider their effects and provide our teams 
the ability to adjust for specified climate scenarios including the effects of 
precipitation and evaporation. To learn more about how we are preparing for 
projected increased water stress at certain of our operations, please read the 
Resilience section of our 2020 Climate Report available on our website.
CLIMATE & WATER RESILIENCE
Following our global climate scenario analysis, in early 2022, 
Freeport began two additional third-party studies to better 
understand how potential climate-related impacts could materialize 
at a more localized level. This includes analysis of the physical risks 
we may face at our locations, including storm frequency and intensity 
and increasing water stress. This is being done using a combination 
of regional climate models, local historical data, and meteorological 
analysis, which will enable us to develop credible site-specific 
projections of likely precipitation and temperature outcomes through 
2100. Our engineering and site teams will then be able to assess 
how the climate projections may impact our facilities and how 
they compare with established management practices. Additional 
ongoing work includes our water team developing precipitation 
sequences on a site-by-site basis for use in our water models to 
forecast daily precipitation patterns for future years. This will better 
enable us to model precipitation patterns at the mine-level and the 
potential impact on regional water supplies. The combination of 
this work with the additional analysis from our scenario analysis, 
will enable us to take a more comprehensive approach to water 
management at the site level. We plan to report more on this work 
in our forthcoming climate report.  
We aim to take a 
holistic approach to 
risk management and 
preventive planning.
 94
Biodiversity 
WHY IT MATTERS
Biodiversity is critical to maintaining resilient ecosystems, which provide people, flora and fauna 
with valuable resources like food, water and the habitats necessary to support life. The impacts of 
climate change, such as prolonged droughts, wildfires and sea level rise, are having a significant 
impact on biodiversity globally. 
OUR APPROACH
Freeport understands that the nature of our mining and processing activities means we have a 
significant responsibility for land management and associated biodiversity. We are committed to 
proactively managing and mitigating the impacts of our operations on biodiversity, land and surrounding 
ecosystems, which includes effectively identifying and managing biodiversity-related risks. 
We focus on biodiversity and land management across the life cycle of our operations. Site subject 
matter experts are required to evaluate each potential project area in order to identify and map key 
features related to biodiversity, cultural resources, water resources and various other environmental 
factors before any land-disturbing project can commence. Biodiversity and conservation are also 
key components of our reclamation plans and activities at our sites. 
We also are committed to promoting opportunities to contribute to the conservation and enhancement 
of biodiversity both within and beyond our operational boundaries. Our conservation initiatives aim to 
produce benefits for both biodiversity and people, build trust and support our ability to operate. We seek 
to engage our employees, local communities and other interested stakeholders in conservation work. 
We foster diverse partnerships with global stakeholders across public and private sectors, as well as 
civil society, to achieve greater accountability and promote the long-term efficacy of our biodiversity 
projects. These collaborations often serve as the basis for our community outreach and education 
opportunities for learners of all ages — both of which are designed to help build capacity. Please see our 
biodiversity highlights table on page 98 for examples of these initiatives.
In 2021, we continued our efforts to implement the mitigation hierarchy globally — a framework 
that emphasizes best practices for managing biodiversity and ecosystems through the avoidance, 
minimization, restoration and offsetting of impacts. Through consistent and rigorous application of 
the mitigation hierarchy, we aim to manage risks and potential impacts with the long-term ambition 
of No Net Loss for new mines and major expansion projects at existing mines. 
OFFSET
RESTORE / REHABILITATE
MINIMIZE
AVOID
NO NET LOSS
MITIGATION HIERARCHY
We aim to avoid or 
minimize the adverse 
impacts of our operations 
on biodiversity and 
contribute positively to 
the conservation of 
biodiversity beyond our 
operational boundaries.
CERRO VERDE RECEIVES AWARDS 
FOR ENDANGERED SPECIES 
CONSERVATION
In 2021, WHC presented two awards to 
Cerro Verde’s Biodiversity Management 
Program for its contribution to the 
conservation of the Peruvian long-
snouted bat (Platalina genovensium) 
and the guanaco (Lama guanicoe). 
WHC highlighted Cerro Verde’s work to 
maintain the habitat of bats, including 
protecting nesting sites and the cacti 
that produce the nectar that bats feed 
on. Likewise, Cerro Verde’s guanaco 
conservation project demonstrates 
responsible production practices by 
avoiding adverse impacts to critical 
habitats and endangered species as 
well as promoting scientific knowledge 
and broader conservation initiatives 
while addressing biodiversity risk.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 95
We recognize the mitigation hierarchy is most effective when implemented during the earliest 
phases of project planning to help maximize opportunities for avoidance and minimization of 
impacts. We have integrated the hierarchy into our existing project development process and trained 
our environmental and operational teams to routinely apply it. 
Policies & Programs
Our Environmental Policy states our commitment to contribute to the conservation of biodiversity 
including an explicit commitment not to explore nor mine at any United Nations Educational, 
Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) World Heritage Sites. Our Environmental 
Management System (EMS) is our framework for understanding the potential impacts of our 
operations on biodiversity. Our Environmental Policy and EMS are complemented by the following: 
▸	 Our operational practices are in alignment with the ICMM Position Statement on Mining and 
Protected Areas, which also includes committing to no mining nor exploring in UNESCO World 
Heritage Sites. 
▸	 We participate in the Conservation Certification program of the Wildlife Habitat Council 
(WHC), which formally recognizes meaningful biodiversity conservation, environmental 
education and community outreach programs. Seventeen of our operating sites and facilities 
currently are certified through WHC, 12 of which are recognized with gold-tier certifications. 
In 2021, Chino, Morenci, Cerro Verde, Bagdad, Miami and Sierrita operations were recertified 
through WHC. 
Guanaco conservation project, 
Cerro Verde mine, Peru.
 96
AMERICAS
We implement a variety of programs and strategies at our operations that 
seek to proactively identify and mitigate biodiversity risks while promoting 
conservation opportunities in collaboration with government agencies and 
other voluntary opportunities. All of our North American sites implement 
Wildlife Protection Plans. These plans are based on adaptive management 
principles to effectively address biodiversity risks resulting from operational 
and ecological changes at the sites. Several sites (Chino, NM; Morenci, AZ; 
Tyrone, NM and Tohono, AZ) also implement risk-based Avian Protection 
Plans that focus specifically on minimizing potential risks to migratory birds. 
In North America, we conduct regular biodiversity surveys, and that 
information is shared with regulators and other interested parties. In 
Arizona and New Mexico, we have mature monitoring programs, including 
for populations of endangered birds and fish on and adjacent to our sites  
that are contributing to the knowledge base on native species. In 2021, 
in consultation with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Bureau of Land 
Management, and U.S. Forest Service, we initiated the development of 
an additional voluntary management plan for the threatened, yellow-
billed cuckoo along Eagle Creek at Morenci and we continued to work 
collaboratively with relevant governmental agencies by sharing our 
knowledge of the area. We also are collaborating with conservation 
practitioners from Southwest Monarch Study and the Pollinator Partnership, 
establishing waystations at our Miami and Bisbee sites in Arizona to benefit 
the western population of monarch butterflies.
In South America, our El Abra operations in Chile and Cerro Verde 
operations in Peru have biodiversity management and action plans, 
which include programs focused on protecting and enhancing biodiversity 
within the area of influence of their mining operations. In addition, the 
biodiversity program at El Abra includes the Ascotán salt flat area. These 
programs are designed to mitigate the impacts on biodiversity resources. 
We have regular communication with relevant Chilean and Peruvian 
authorities about biodiversity and also with our host communities and 
the indigenous communities surrounding El Abra Ascotan’s wells field to 
develop collaborative agreements aligned with improving the ecosystem 
of a spring.
We are collaborating with conservation 
practitioners from Southwest Monarch 
Study and the Pollinator Partnership, 
establishing waystations at our Miami 
and Bisbee sites in Arizona to benefit the 
western population of monarch butterflies.
Miami and Bisbee 
operations maintain 
milkweed gardens as 
part of their longstanding 
Pollinator Conservation 
Initiative to increase and 
maintain habitats for 
Monarch butterflies.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 97
Education & Biodiversity Initiatives
In 2021, many of our typical in-person biodiversity and conservation education activities remained 
virtual due to ongoing concerns from COVID-19. In Peru, the team at Cerro Verde created an online 
show for local school kids in collaboration with the “Guardianes del Planeta Tierra” (Earth Guardians). 
During Biodiversity and Bat Week, Morenci employees presented and facilitated activities with 
hundreds of students that explored topics such as bat conservation, soil sciences, endangered species 
and pollinators. Morenci opened its virtual events to interested teachers in other school districts, 
thereby expanding the company’s outreach and positive engagement across multiple Freeport 
communities. The company’s Native American Affairs Team collaborated with the University of 
Arizona's Project WET (Water Education for Teachers and Students) to offer a virtual water stewardship 
and conservation workshop to Freeport’s Tribal partners. Participants were encouraged to share the 
knowledge gained from the workshop at their respective Earth Day celebrations. 
Encouraging Biodiversity with a New Greenhouse 
Freeport recognizes that our host communities often know the territory and land best and 
we value their contribution and collaboration as we work to promote conservation and 
biodiversity. At our El Abra operations in Chile, which has a harsh climate where it’s difficult for 
plants to grow and thrive, our employees worked together with local Indigenous community 
members at the end of 2020 to build a greenhouse to nurture native plant seedlings as part 
of its ongoing commitment to sustainability and biodiversity. The greenhouse accommodates 
up to 15,000 plants, where they are cared for until they can be replanted successfully in the 
extreme climate of the Ascotán salt flats, at an elevation of 12,141 feet in Chile. 
The 2,100-square-foot greenhouse is part of the comprehensive, multi-year Environmental 
Management Plan for the site. The work in 2021 included soil studies, aerial monitoring of the 
region and maintenance work in the nursery, as well as gradual acclimatization of the plants to 
their natural habitat. In particular, two native species of flowers — Zameioscirpus atacamensis 
and Puccinellia frigida — that grow in extreme regions like the salt flats were planted.
Trained community members now help manage the greenhouse, taking care of everything 
from planting seeds and monitoring germination in the nursery to planting vegetation and 
observing the natural plant life in the salt flats.
Our El Abra team in Chile 
constructed and opened a 
greenhouse to help propagate 
native species of flora. 
The greenhouse employs 
local indigenous Ascotán 
community members.
 98
PERFORMANCE
We conduct site-specific, multi-year biodiversity programs either voluntarily or for regulatory purposes. These programs are designed to address the most 
significant biodiversity issues at each site, including the following:
SITE / LOCATION
2021 BIODIVERSITY HIGHLIGHTS
Tyrone (New Mexico), 
Miami & Morenci (Arizona)
Sites continued implementation of management plans developed in consultation with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to support 
conservation of federally-listed fish (spikedace and loach minnow) and birds (southwestern willow flycatcher and yellow-billed cuckoo).
Tyrone & Chino (New Mexico), 
Morenci & Tohono (Arizona)
In accordance with their Avian Protection Plans, these sites continued to implement robust programs to minimize risks to birds throughout 
the year.
Sierrita (Arizona)
Sierrita employees continued to partner with Tucson Audubon Society on their Desert Nestbox Program. Employees installed over 60 nest 
boxes for Lucy's Warblers, Ash-throated Flycatchers, Elf Owls and Western Screech Owls at the West Desert Trails property. With assistance 
from Hawkwatch International, employees trained retirees and other community volunteers on how to monitor the nest boxes and identify 
species that nested and successfully fledged young. 
Sierrita / Tohono O’odham Nation 
(TON)
Members of the Tohono O’odham Nation’s San Xavier district collaborated with Freeport employees to salvage culturally significant species 
such as mesquite, ocotillo, wild tobacco and native cacti from Sierrita’s area of operations. Some species were collected to be used while 
others were transplanted within the San Xavier district to enhance the district’s ongoing conservation education efforts.
Henderson (Colorado)
Henderson continued collaborating with Colorado Parks & Wildlife and the U.S. Forest Service on long-term monitoring of the state-
endangered boreal toad population that breeds in several ponds on the site. Several toads captured in 2021 were recaptures of individuals 
originally captured in 2020, and the agencies stated that the overall monitoring results indicated good interannual survival and successful 
dispersal of toads from Henderson to adjacent suitable habitat. 
Fort Madison (Iowa)
At the Fort Madison Climax Molybdenum processing facility, the team conducted a native mussel survey and relocation in partnership with 
Lee County Conservation. Over 5,000 mussels comprising 20 species were collected and released safely upstream. The team also co-
developed a lesson plan for local middle school students. On their field trip, students waded into the Mississippi River to collect and identify 
mussels, conduct water quality experiments and observe aquatic invertebrates.
Cerro Verde (Peru)
Cerro Verde’s biodiversity programs aim to advance species conservation and improve critical habitat for multiple plant and animal species. 
In 2021, the team continued to enhance habitat for the guanaco (Lama guanicoe), relocate multiple cacti and reptile species successfully, 
propagate native plant species in greenhouse facilities and enhance biological monitoring of both native and introduced species. The team 
hosted virtual lessons on biodiversity to local schools in support of conservation education.
El Abra (Chile)
El Abra coordinates campaigns with local area specialists to rescue and relocate opuntia cacti, reptiles and small mammals from within the 
mine site to conserve the genetic variability of the populations of flora and fauna. Following rescue, the team continues monitoring on an 
ongoing basis to measure the success of the relocation. Results have shown relocated individuals have acclimated well and reproduced. 
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 99
INDONESIA
PT-FI’s operations and support area encompass multiple ecosystems and 
host one of the richest and most biodiverse regions in the world. From the 
mangrove forests on the coasts, the land blends into a swamp forest, then 
into the Lowland rainforests, heath forests, montane forests, and finally, 
subalpine and alpine forests in the Highlands. 
The PT-FI area is adjacent to the Lorentz National Park, the largest protected 
area in Southeast Asia and the only protected area in the world that 
incorporates continuous intact tracts of ecosystems from alpine to tropical 
marine environments, including extensive lowland wetlands. In 1999, 
Lorentz National Park was declared a World Heritage Site by the UNESCO. 
Conserving and protecting Papua’s biodiversity and ecosystems is a high 
priority for both PT-FI and Freeport. Since 1994, PT-FI has collaborated 
with national and international scientists on comprehensive surveys 
of vegetation, mammals, birds, amphibians, reptiles, freshwater and 
estuarine fish, aquatic insects and terrestrial insects. These surveys 
help us better understand the ecosystems and potential mine-related 
impacts on biodiversity. Using information from the surveys, we develop 
appropriate biodiversity conservation programs using principles of 
restoration ecology for rehabilitation and reclamation of disturbed areas 
in the Grasberg minerals district. 
Through PT-FI’s biodiversity programs, we recognize the important role 
biodiversity plays in sustainability and seek to establish strong partnerships 
with multiple stakeholder groups involved in conservation and natural 
resource management, including governments, NGOs, universities, research 
organizations and citizens. PT-FI supports management of biodiversity in 
the region, including monitoring, restoration, reclamation and reforestation, 
and provides extensive biodiversity education, research and information 
opportunities.
Biodiversity Education & Outreach Programs 
Education and outreach are major focuses of PT-FI’s biodiversity efforts, 
including construction of wildlife sanctuaries and the creation of the Natural 
Succession Discovery Park on a former tailings disposal area to serve as 
an outdoor education classroom. PT-FI has established wildlife areas and 
partners with local schools for education outreach and provides internships 
at its on-site nursery for high school and college students. Due to ongoing 
COVID-19 restrictions in 2021, in-person visits remained on hold; however 
PT-FI provided virtual classes to over 550 schoolchildren on topics such as 
“Plastic Waste”, “Cultivation of Vegetable Crops and Livestock”, and “Natural 
Resource Management and Economy with PT-FI Context”. To celebrate 
Environmental Month, in June, over 500 students participated in a PT-FI 
organized clean city event in Timika with the theme, “Ecosystem Restoration.” 
PT-FI environmental team 
members conduct aquatic 
species monitoring in Indonesia.
 100
Research & Monitoring 
PT-FI conducts extensive research and monitoring in area ecosystems 
ranging from approximately 4,000 meters above sea level to coastal and 
marine areas. Routine flora and fauna monitoring is conducted through 
collaboration with consultants, research organizations and universities. 
Existing biodiversity research on Papua has been limited, with most 
research and publications available focusing on Papua New Guinea, which 
is to the east of Papua, Indonesia. As a means of monitoring reclamation, 
PT-FI isolated an area where tailings had previously been deposited to use 
as a natural tailings reclamation laboratory. This 750-hectare area is used 
to conduct research and demonstration projects focused on post-mining 
reclamation options and productive land use options on tailings soils.
Revegetation, Reclamation & Restoration 
Since mining operations started, PT-FI has reclaimed over 455 hectares 
of overburden stockpile areas with native plant species in the Highlands 
of Papua. In 2021, as agreed with Indonesia's Ministry of Environment and 
Forestry (MoEF), PT-FI commenced a watershed rehabilitation project 
on approximately 3,800 hectares of forest area that overlaps with our 
mining concession area. Throughout 2022, PT-FI, in collaboration with 
local contractors, will continue to plant native species in the forest area 
and maintain the land for several years, after which the Environmental and 
Forestry Agency of Papua will assume oversight of maintenance. 
In coastal areas throughout the world, mangroves are decreasing due to 
erosion or due to the conversion of the mangrove for agriculture. PT-FI 
actively works to create and establish mangrove habitats where possible 
in selected areas created by sediment at the Modified Ajkwa Deposition 
Area (ModADA) by cultivating seeds of mangrove trees for two to three 
years and then propagating them. PT-FI also is exploring opportunities to 
increase available mangrove habitat in open water along the coastline. In 
particular, the Ajkwa and Waii Islands in the Ajkwa Estuary in the Lowlands 
have seen accelerated mangrove colonization resulting from approximately 
471 hectares of total mangrove planting since mining operations began, 
including 70 hectares in 2021.
PT-FI environmental team member 
prepares native plants for reclamation 
activities in Indonesia.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 101
Protection of Fauna 
Fauna from Papua often become the object of illegal trade. Countering 
illegal wildlife trade is a priority for Papua’s natural resource agencies and 
part of PT-FI’s commitment to biodiversity conservation. For many years, 
PT-FI recovered injured birds and other animals from the illegal trade of 
endangered species with the aim of releasing them back into the wild. To 
date, PT-FI has assisted in releasing back into their natural habitat more than 
46,000 pig-nosed turtles, 173 black-capped lories, 21 dusky pademelons, 
seven yellow-crested cockatoos and six double-wattled cassowary. 
PT-FI cooperates with the Indonesia Animal Rescue Center, Papua Regional 
Police, Forest Protection and Nature Conservation, Forest Rangers, Forestry 
Department, Lorentz National Park Center and Wasur National Park Center 
to repatriate animals seized from the illegal trade of endangered species to 
their appropriate habitats. PT-FI built an animal rescue center at Milepost 
21. The center will be operated by BBKSDA Papua and BBKSDA Mimika, and 
PT-FI will continue to provide support, such as manpower and facilities, for 
the rehabilitation and release of animals.
1	 OLIVER, P.; GÜNTHER, R.; TJATURADI, B.; RICHARDS, S. J. A New Species of Large Green Treefrog 
(Litoria, Pelodryadidae) from Papua, Indonesia. Zootaxa 2021, 4903, 117–126.
Helping Discover a New Frog Species
PT-FI, in partnership with The Indonesian Institute of Sciences (LIPI) 
and the South Australian Museum, discovered a new frog species in the 
Mimika Regency of Papua, Indonesia. The species, named Litoria lubisi, 
is a type of large green tree frog that is a member of the Pelodryadidae 
family. The discovery of the new species was officially published in the 
international journal Zootaxa1.
The research on Litoria lubisi was started in 2006. The research was 
continued by the LIPI research team, and after 15 years of study, the 
research team confirmed that the species was a new species never 
recorded in the taxonomic pedigree.
PT-FI conducts extensive research 
and monitoring in area ecosystems 
ranging from approximately 4,000 
meters above sea level to coastal 
and marine areas.
Our PT-FI environmental teams 
conduct extensive ongoing 
environmental monitoring.
 102
Tailings Management 
WHY IT MATTERS 
Effective tailings management is critical to mining safely, protecting people and the environment 
and maintaining social license to operate. Tailings are the finely ground natural rock particles 
or by-products that remain after the economically valuable minerals have been processed and 
extracted from the mined ore. Typically, tailings are transported from processing facilities to 
management and storage facilities. We recognize the potential failure of tailings facilities and 
other impoundments at any of our mining operations could cause severe — and in some cases 
catastrophic — property and environmental damage as well as loss of life.
OUR APPROACH 
The health and safety of our workforce, host communities and the environment are fundamental to 
our extensive tailings management program and approach. Our objective is to have zero fatalities, 
zero catastrophic failures, and zero unplanned discharges from any of our tailings facilities. 
Freeport has comprehensive measures in place to ensure our facilities are designed, built, operated 
and monitored to minimize risk to employees, neighboring host communities and the environment. 
These measures include substantial internal and external engineering expertise, technological 
monitoring (including remote sensing), local responsibility and corporate and independent 
third-party oversight. Our safeguards generally fall within four categories that include: (1) good 
engineering practices and safe designs, (2) rigorous adherence to construction and operational 
parameters through monitoring and use of technology, (3) multi-tiered oversight, and (4) adherence 
to practices grounded in continuous improvement and learning from past experiences, including 
industry failures and best practices. The safeguards are effectively implemented through the 
promotion of open and ongoing communication throughout the organization and action at all levels.
We remain focused on the safe execution of our tailings management systems through 
interdisciplinary collaborations at our sites and corporate offices. We host workshops, 
informational sessions and trainings for our tailings engineers. These events support our teams 
with knowledge sharing across sites and provide opportunities to collaborate and develop 
relationships across the organization. 
TAILINGS MANAGEMENT 
& STEWARDSHIP
MULTI-TIERED
OVERSIGHT
MONITORING & TECHNOLOGY
LEARNING FROM
PAST EXPERIENCES
COMMUNICATION & ACTION
ENGINEERING & DESIGN
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 103
Policies & Programs
In 2021, we established a formal standalone Tailings Management Policy 
which was approved by the CRC and outlines our continued commitment to 
managing our tailings responsibly and effectively. The policy also includes 
our commitment to implement the Global Industry Standard on Tailings 
Management (the Tailings Standard) at our tailings storage facilities.  
We maintain robust multi-tiered governance of our tailings programs, as 
outlined in the following pages, and our Board and executive management 
are firmly committed to providing the necessary financial and technical 
resources to maintain the safety of our tailings facilities and systems and 
the integrity of our tailings management systems globally, with a focus on 
continuous improvement. 
AMERICAS 
Freeport affiliates in the Americas currently operate 16 active tailings 
storage facilities (TSFs), 14 in the U.S. and 2 in Peru; and manage 52 TSFs 
in the U.S. that are inactive or closed and 5 that are deemed “safely closed” 
according to the definition in the Tailings Standard. 
The Tailings Standard
The Tailings Standard was developed through an independent, multi-
stakeholder process co-convened by the United Nations Environment 
Programme, the Principles for Responsible Investment and ICMM 
following the tragic collapse of a tailings facility located in Brumadinho, 
Brazil, in 2019. Through our active participation in ICMM, Freeport 
played a leadership role in the development of the Tailings Standard. 
Formally launched in August 2020, the Tailings Standard is the first 
global standard for tailings management that can be applied to existing 
and future tailings storage facilities. The Tailings Standard has been 
integrated into ICMM’s existing member commitments, and ICMM 
members have agreed that all tailings storage facilities with “extreme” 
or “very high” potential consequences (based on credible failure 
modes) should demonstrate conformance with the Tailings Standard by 
August 2023, and all other tailings storage facilities by August 2025. 
While our existing tailings management systems are mature and robust, 
in 2021, Freeport continued to advance conformance with the Tailings 
Standard at our Americas TSFs in line with our commitment. During the 
year, we also contributed to the development of ICMM’s Conformance 
Protocols for the Tailings Standard, which will be used by ICMM member 
companies and other third parties to assess implementation of the 
Tailings Standard. Freeport also played a leadership role in developing 
the ICMM Tailings Management Good Practice Guide that launched in 
2021. This guide, along with our internal guidance and management 
systems, provides comprehensive governance and engineering 
guidance for our sites. 
FACILITIES BY DESIGN & STATUS
UPSTREAM
CENTERLINE
DOWNSTREAM
Active
11
5
0
Inactive or Closed
45
5
2
Safely Closed1
5
0
0
1	 Safely Closed is defined by the Tailings Standard and requires confirmation by an external independent reviewer 
and an Accountable Executive. While many of our inactive / closed facilities have not yet gone through the specific 
review process to confirm the Safely Closed designation, we consistently apply our tailings management system 
to all facilities to support their safe management. We will update our disclosures annually as we work through the 
process of comparing the specifications of our TSFs against this criteria.
We strive to continuously manage, 
enhance and innovate our tailings systems 
in a manner that minimizes impacts to 
stakeholders and the environment. 
 104
Performance 
Freeport has invested significant time and resources to monitor our TSFs 
effectively. In a typical year, site engineers and external EoRs conduct 
multiple in-person inspections of our TSFs, TSTs visit all active sites and 
select inactive or closed sites based on an established inspection schedule, 
and TRBs conduct quadrennial reviews. This multi-tiered, continuous review 
and inspection process results in recommended actions, which we track 
until implemented/resolved. 
In 2021, EoRs and TSTs resumed some in-person site visits following the 
lifting of certain restrictions related to COVID-19, while also supplementing 
with virtual efforts. TRB meetings continue to be held virtually. While remote 
technologies do not provide the same benefits as on-the-ground inspections, 
we have effectively regularized and adopted the use of emerging technologies 
in recent years to enhance our stewardship program, enabling monitoring and 
inspections to continue without significant interruption when in-person visits 
could not occur due to COVID-19 travel restrictions. 
GOVERNANCE - AMERICAS
In addition to CRC oversight, Freeport maintains multi-tiered 
oversight of TSFs at its operational sites: 
▸	 Corporate Senior Leadership – Executive leadership that 
participates in major decisions related to the management 
program, including allocation of resources for TSF-related 
operations, initiatives and projects. 
▸	 Accountable Executive (AE) – Internal executives who report 
directly to the CEO and are accountable for the safe management 
of tailings facilities and for minimizing the social and environmental 
consequences of any TSF failures. 
▸	 Responsible Tailings Facility Engineer (RTFE) – Internal 
engineers appointed by AEs and responsible for the integrity of 
assigned TSFs. Each RTFE provides technical expertise, manages 
risk and liaises with the external Engineer of Record. Corporate 
discipline experts provide regular support to RTFEs.  
▸	 Site Tailings Management, Engineers and Operators – Internal 
team that implements the management program and regularly 
monitors, identifies and addresses potential risks. 
▸	 Engineer of Record (EoR) – External engineer who provides 
expert design and engineering analysis, technical support, 
inspection, review and guidance to support an RTFE in achieving 
design intent of their assigned TSF. 
▸	 Tailings Stewardship Team (TST) – Third-party engineers 
and internal experts who inspect all tailings facilities, review 
documents and monitoring data, identify potential deficiencies 
and recommend corrective actions. 
▸	 Technical Review Boards (TRB) – Third-party, internationally-
known expert panels who provide independent opinions and 
guidance on the physical integrity, safety and performance of 
TSFs and has access to corporate senior leadership.
For closed and inactive sites, we have a similar oversight structure that reports 
through the Vice President and Chief Sustainability Officer and includes the 
same roles for site-level engineers, EoRs, TSTs and TRB structures. 
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 105
Increased use of remote technologies combined with development of web-
based and mobile computing applications enhances situational awareness 
company-wide and  provides us with real-time data which our engineers and 
operators, both on-site and off-site, use to make decisions. For example, 
our engineers use satellite imagery to monitor the location of tailings ponds 
in relation to the outer slope of the embankments. Access to near-daily 
satellite imagery allows site-based engineers to safely monitor the location 
of these ponds and more efficiently plan their daily work. Additionally, 
engineers can measure beach width at the tailings storage facilities by using 
multi-spectral remote sensing technology, allowing more efficient water 
volume measurements. We regularly assess, evaluate, customize and adopt  
emerging technologies to identify opportunities in the way we monitor our 
tailings facilities. 
In addition to collecting data through physical inspections, our engineers 
and external EoRs obtain data from various sensors, such as piezometers, 
through online reporting systems that have capabilities to alert engineers 
and managers of any exceedances outside of expected instrument 
behavior. These data feed into our Early Indicator Dashboard — an internal 
management tool we use to aggregate critical measures of our facilities 
and to track performance against third-party recommendations, key 
performance indicators, and other metrics. 
More information on our tailings management and stewardship program, 
including a detailed summary of our tailings facilities, can be found on 
our website.
Freeport's multi-tiered, continuous 
review and inspection process results in 
recommended actions, which we track 
until implemented.
Drone pilots support our ongoing 
tailings monitoring efforts at our 
Morenci operaitons in Arizona.
 106
INDONESIA 
PT-FI operates a controlled riverine tailings management system, which was 
implemented based on methods approved and permitted by the Indonesia 
government. Tailings are transported from the concentrating facility along 
with water and a small quantity of concentrating reagents. Reagents added 
as part of the concentrating process have been demonstrated to dissipate 
within a short distance of the concentrating facility. 
The controlled riverine tailings management system at PT-FI uses an 
unnavigable river to transport the tailings from the concentrator in the 
Highlands along with natural sediments to a large engineered and managed 
deposition area in the Lowlands, called the Modified Ajkwa Deposition Area 
or ModADA. The river is not used for potable water, agriculture, fishing or 
other domestic or commercial uses. Levees have been constructed on both 
sides of the ModADA to laterally contain the depositional footprint of the 
tailings and natural sediment within the designated area. Quantities of finer 
tailings and other sediments deposit in the estuary and the sea to the south. 
Independent, environmental management expert audits have reaffirmed 
that this system is the best  site-specific management alternative, given 
the topographical, seismic and geotechnical, geological, climatological 
and environmental conditions of the area. It has been in service for more 
than 20 years and has performed reliably, safely, and in line with initial 
design plans. A large-scale conventional style tailings dam would not be 
safe, stable or effective. 
GOVERNANCE - INDONESIA
PT-FI implements comprehensive and robust governance and oversight 
processes of its tailings management system. In addition to regular 
internal and external audits and assessments, oversight of the 
controlled riverine tailings management system is conducted by: 
▸	 Freeport Corporate Senior Leadership – Participates in key 
decisions and provides resources to site management. 
▸	 Freeport Corporate Tailings and Water Teams – Technical 
resources that provide support and assists with guidance and 
direction for site tailings team and associated program initiatives. 
▸	 Site Tailings Management, Engineers and Operators – Internal 
team that implements the program and regularly monitors, 
identifies and addresses potential risks associated with the 
ModADA and coastal zone areas. 
▸	 External Design Engineer – External resource provides design, 
ongoing engineering support, periodic inspections and levee 
construction quality review. 
▸	 ModADA Management Board (MMB) – Multi-disciplinary 
expert panel that convenes twice yearly to provide oversight and 
recommendations to PT-FI leadership and engineering teams 
on priority activities including safety, risks associated with the 
ModADA and coastal zone, the structural integrity of the levees, 
geochemical stability of the deposited sediments, environmental 
considerations and stakeholder engagement. 
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 107
Performance 
In 2020, PT-FI initiated a new environmental impact analysis (AMDAL) 
in preparation for the proposed extension of the east and west levees 
to maintain the tailings within the footprint of the approved tailings 
management area. The public announcement and initial public 
consultations were completed in mid-2020 with the nearby Amungme 
and Kamoro villages. PT-FI continues to work with Indonesia’s MoEF to 
address full approval of the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment 
for facilities and activities associated with the transition from open-pit 
mining to underground operations; full approval is currently estimated to 
be received in 2022. PT-FI is currently undergoing regulatory review of 
technical approvals, the next stage of the overall permitting process. 
PT-FI and Indonesia’s MoEF established a framework known as the 
Tailings Roadmap in December 2018 to support continuous improvement 
of PT-FI’s environmental practices. The framework includes the 
requirement for independent third parties to complete three evaluations 
focused on: 1) an evaluation of the scalability and economic viability 
of using tailings in transportation infrastructure, such as roads and 
bridges, and building infrastructure, such as prefabricated  construction 
materials, 2) a reexamination of the riverine tailings management options 
including the potential to further increase retention and construction of 
a cross-levee, and 3) a valuation of previous, current, and future estuary 
ecosystem services and potential engineering measures to enhance the 
protection of the coastal ecosystem and provide further quantification of 
potential benefits.  
Over the course of 2020 and 2021, PT-FI supported the third-party experts 
identified by MoEF to complete the Tailings Roadmap Study objectives. The 
findings of these studies were presented to the MoEF in the pursuit of shared 
goals to continue managing and mitigating the impacts of mining operations 
at PT-FI and are summarized as follows: 
▸	 While PT-FI encourages third-party use of tailings for infrastructure, 
logistics are not economically viable if long distance transport of 
tailings is required; local uses of tailings concrete could be possible if 
market demand exists; 
▸ 	 A southern cross-levee is not feasible due to constructability and 
geotechnical stability issues. The studies also determined that a cross-
levee would create long-term, unacceptable risks to local communities 
and the environment due to structural stability concerns; 
▸ 	 While PT-FI’s controlled riverine tailings management system does 
have a transitory impact on the designated estuary ecosystem, 
aside from incremental increases in ground elevation due to tailings 
deposition, the affected ecosystems are anticipated to regenerate as 
demonstrated by long-term monitoring of previously impacted areas; 
▸ 	 The proposed east and west levee extension structures included 
as part of the current AMDAL  filing are effective in retaining the 
transitory sedimentation affects to within the permitted boundary of 
the tailings management area, and through modeling have also been 
shown to incrementally increase upstream sediment deposition; and 
▸ 	 Concepts to increase available mangrove habitat and other potential 
improvements to tailings management practices were identified and 
are currently being discussed further with the MoEF.
 108
PT-FI ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING PROGRAM 
PT-FI maintains an extensive environmental management and 
monitoring program to assess the potential current and future 
environmental impacts from its controlled riverine tailings system. 
PT-FI to spends approximately $100 million annually to manage 
and monitor the controlled system. 
A multi-disciplinary, multi-department team routinely measures 
surface and groundwater quality, air quality, and biological, 
hydrological, sediment, and meteorological characteristics of the 
entire operations area. PT-FI collects around 15,000 samples for 
analysis annually (based on a five-year average), using the results 
to develop the scientific information needed to make informed 
management decisions about system performance with a focus on 
eliminating, minimizing, or mitigating environmental impacts. 
To support this effort, PT-FI established the Timika Environmental 
Laboratory or TEL in the mid-1990s, located within our 
operational area in the Lowlands town of Timika. The lab is 
certified to ISO 17025 quality standards by the Indonesian 
National Accreditation Committee and serves as the main 
analytical lab for sample analyses used in our monitoring 
programs. TEL is registered with the MoEF as a Referenced 
Environmental Laboratory. 
Impacts of the tailings management system, including increases 
in sedimentation, were predicted in numerous studies and are 
consistent with the design and operation approved and permitted 
by the government of Indonesia. Monitoring results continue to 
indicate the environmental impacts of the tailings deposition  
are reversible at the end of the mine’s life, except for elevation 
changes. Large-scale demonstration reclamation projects show 
that several land use options will be possible after final closure of 
the deposition area.
Members of the PT-FI environmental team 
conduct estuary monitoring and sampling 
near our operations in Papua, Indonesia.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 109
PT-FI HUMAN HEALTH ASSESSMENT
PT-FI has been undertaking a multi-year human health assessment (HHA) with 
support from various third parties. This comprehensive HHA is composed of 
multiple phases starting with the human health risk assessment followed by an 
on-the-ground local community health survey. Following completion of these 
phases, we plan to provide a summary of the results as well as next steps.   
Phase One: Risk Assessment
As part of our ongoing environmental management and monitoring program, 
PT-FI has conducted human health risk assessments in the past, which 
evaluate the potential health risks associated with possible exposure to 
tailings and mining waste constituents around our Grasberg operations. 
Risk assessments include predictive calculations that are meant to 
indicate potential exposure pathways that should be further evaluated with 
additional data collection and research. These risk assessments help to 
ensure PT-FI’s management efforts are effective and its monitoring efforts 
are robust, as well as identify areas for potential improvement.
Most recently, Gradient Corporation, a third-party environmental and risk 
sciences firm, with support from PT-FI, identified and assessed the key 
potential exposure pathways and metal concentrations in locations across 
the Highlands, Lowlands, and estuaries areas. The Gradient risk assessment 
was conducted in line with U.S. EPA guidelines for human health risk 
assessments, which contains guidelines for identification of potential health 
risks across various age groups and investigation of potential exposure 
pathways, including surface waters, sediments, soils, air quality, drinking 
water, plants, finfish and shellfish.
The initial findings of the risk assessment indicate that the plants, 
animals and fish in and around the tailings system remain safe for human 
consumption based on the consumption data and exposure pathways 
assessed. With the exception of one species of clam, no significant elevated 
human health risks were calculated from exposure to tailings system 
constituents across the pathways examined. 
The risk assessment identified that a species of clam collected from a 
localized area in one of the estuaries has accumulated elevated levels of 
metals in sediments. The concentrated levels of metals in the identified 
clam species are a result of historical stormwater run-off from the Wanagon 
overburden stockpile. The underlying overburden erosion and run-off 
are being managed and controlled, and PT-FI has not experienced similar 
erosion issues at the Wanagon overburden stockpile since 2018. To mitigate 
the possibility of erosion recurrence, PT-FI is continuing to cap the existing 
overburden stockpile with limestone and constructing additional levees and 
drainage channels to move stormwater away from the overburden stockpile. 
We continue to actively monitor this matter.
Phase Two: Community Health Survey
In addition to the risk assessment, PT-FI also is assisting the Mimika local 
health authorities with their biennial community health survey. The health 
survey will provide an update on the overall health of the communities and 
also is expected to provide insight into the risk assessment calculations 
from phase one. The ongoing health survey includes a comprehensive set 
of medical tests of local community members across multiple Lowland and 
Highland villages to evaluate various health conditions, including specific tests 
in selected villages designed to validate the risk assessment calculations. The 
local health authorities are working with national medical experts at Udayana 
University supported by International SOS and experts from the University 
of Indonesia to collect and analyze the biometric data. The information 
collected will be used to further validate the consumption data used in the risk 
assessment calculations and to further evaluate potential impacts from our 
operations on community health. Once all data are collected and evaluated, 
the local health authority will determine, with support from PT-FI, what 
additional monitoring and mitigation measures may be required. We currently 
expect the Mimika local health authorities to complete the survey in 2022. 
Once complete, we plan to publish a summary of the HHA, including the risk 
assessment calculations and health survey results.
PT-FI is fully committed to supporting our local communities, and in partnership 
with the local health authorities, we are dedicated to improving the long-term 
health and well-being of the communities where we live and operate.
 110
Waste Management 
WHY IT MATTERS 
Every business creates waste and reducing that waste is essential to managing environmental 
impacts. In addition to mining and mineral processing wastes, such as tailings, waste rock, 
overburden and slag, our operations generate non-mining waste, which requires proper end-of-
life management. Responsible management of all these materials is critical to complying with 
environmental regulations, maintaining community and environmental health, and advancing social 
acceptance of our operations. 
OUR APPROACH 
Freeport is committed to reducing our environmental impact, which includes the effective 
management of our mining and non-mining wastes alike. The volume of mining and mineral 
processing wastes we generate varies depending on site-specific operating plans. These materials 
are typically managed in designated, engineered stockpiles or impoundments, as discussed in more 
detail in the prior Tailings Management section. 
In addition to responsibly managing our mining and mineral processing waste, we continuously 
evaluate opportunities to reduce the quantity of non-mining waste generated. We seek to apply the 
standard protocol of reduce, reuse, recycle wherever possible and implement robust practices to 
identify, categorize, store and manage non-mining wastes. Through our asset recovery programs, 
we divert certain materials from the landfill and we strive to increase recycling and reuse of those 
materials in our operations whenever possible. We also evaluate our hazardous waste streams and, 
when possible, substitute materials with lower toxicity into our processes.
In addition to Freeport’s dedicated TSTs who are responsible for managing our mining and 
processing waste, we also have a dedicated global waste management team composed of subject 
matter experts from across the company. The team is responsible for advancing our technical 
expertise and developing leadership skills through multi-site collaboration. Our experts provide 
guidance to support global consistency in our waste management programs and adherence to 
Freeport’s environmental policy. The waste management programs identify best practices and 
opportunities for continuous improvement. We follow local and national regulations and seek to 
meet or exceed industry best practices for disposing responsibly.
Freeport is committed 
to reducing our 
environmental impact, 
which includes the 
effective management 
of our mining and 
non-mining wastes alike.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 111
PERFORMANCE
In 2021, our mining and mineral processing wastes, and our non-mining 
wastes were higher than last year largely due to the resumption of more 
normal production activities at Cerro Verde and Chino following COVID-19 
suspensions and the resumption of general site activities elsewhere. 
We generated 295 million metric tons of tailings, 365 million metric tons of 
waste rock and overburden and 582 thousand metric tons of slag in 2021. 
In addition to tailings, waste rock, overburden and slag, our operations also 
generate non-mining waste. Our non-mining wastes are categorized as: 
(1) non-hazardous (such as tires, scrap metal, obsolete equipment, HDPE 
pipe, domestic waste and wood waste) and (2) hazardous (such as water 
treatment sludge, chemicals, solvents, batteries and reagent packaging). 
In 2021, we generated approximately 261,500 metric tons of non-mining 
wastes, of which 11% was hazardous and 89% was non-hazardous. 
When possible, our materials are evaluated for other end-of-life uses 
in accordance with applicable regulations and are recycled at our 
own operations or into the global value chain. Through our continuous 
improvement efforts, we have identified and implemented numerous waste 
minimization or recycling efforts across our operations. 
For example, our Atlantic Copper smelter in Spain is partnering with WEEE 
FORUM, a European association that represents producers of electrical and 
electronic equipment, to recycle e-waste and contribute to a circular copper 
economy. Our Morenci mine recycles high volumes of HDPE pipe, and coal 
ash waste generated at PT-FI’s power plant in Indonesia, is fully reutilized to 
make concrete for site construction projects. 
Employees at our PT-FI operations no longer use bottled water, achieving 
nearly zero plastic bottle waste from a peak of almost 5 million bottles a 
year. The holistic effort included employee education and infrastructure 
changes to promote the use of refillable, reusable bottles. The employee 
awareness campaign known as #SaPuAir, which means "My Water," won 
awards and educated employees about the pristine quality of water and 
the need to reduce plastic waste.
48%
Hazardous Waste
Non-Hazardous Waste
% Recycled
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
THOUSAND METRIC TONS
38%
44%
42%
50%
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
NON-MINING WASTE GENERATED & RECYCLED
Water refill stations help to keep our team 
hydrated while reducing waste at the 
Grasberg minerals district, Indonesia.
 112
Mine Closure and Reclamation 
WHY IT MATTERS 
Mining requires infrastructure projects that alter the natural environment, 
such as open-pit mines, roads, and processing facilities. Mining companies 
are responsible for managing these impacts, which include reclamation of 
the land for post-mining use. The purpose of reclamation is to return areas 
impacted by mining and processing activities to a healthy state with lands 
that support productive post-mining land use. 
OUR APPROACH 
Freeport understands that effectively reclaiming disturbed land and 
responsibly closing our mining and processing sites is critical to maintaining 
the trust of our local communities, governments, and other interested 
stakeholders, and as such, reclamation and mine closure processes are 
integral to our site planning and ongoing operations. 
We seek to plan and operate our mines in a manner that considers 
post-mining land use well in advance of mine closure. Likewise, when 
designing new projects, or expanding existing ones, we plan for how the 
land can be reclaimed once the mine closes. Our philosophy of responsible 
production continues when we close our mining and processing sites 
through to reclamation. 
Freeport strives to partner collaboratively with our host communities and 
Indigenous Peoples to define and deliver shared value, throughout the 
mine life cycle. We not only seek to avoid, minimize and mitigate negative 
impacts from our operations but also aim to provide long-lasting benefits 
to our neighbors — beyond closure. We aim to work in partnership with our 
host communities — which in many cases includes Indigenous Peoples — to 
help build resiliency and well-being at the individual- and institutional-level 
to help people thrive over the life of our mines and beyond. At each of our 
operations, we have mine closure and reclamation plans with site-specific 
environmental measures designed to minimize long-term impacts, promote 
ecosystem reestablishment, and protect the watersheds where we operate. 
To support future anticipated closure and reclamation costs, each operating 
mine site has asset retirement obligations aligned with approved closure 
plans and that are estimated and accounted for in accordance with GAAP 
and are audited by an independent accounting firm. 
Most of our mines operate for at least several decades, due to the 
geological nature of the deposits and the large resource base. As a result, 
implementation of closure plans may not occur for decades in the future. 
We plan for and carry out concurrent reclamation when and where there 
is no interference with the long term mine plans and designs. Concurrent 
reclamation can take on many forms from completely reclaiming facilities 
on the mine site at the end of their useful life to designing a new stockpile 
or tailings facility for closure before it is even constructed. We continually 
evaluate our sites for possible concurrent reclamation opportunities.  
Our reclamation programs incorporate multiple aspects associated with 
environmental management and community well-being, such as water and 
air quality, erosion, wildlife and grazing habitats and revegetation programs, 
working together to advance ecosystem reestablishment. Our traditional 
post-mining land use has been focused on wildlife habitats, and we 
increasingly are exploring other opportunities such as open spaces, grazing 
habitats, recreational and educational uses, renewable energy sites and 
new industrial uses for our lands post-closure.
Reclaimed area at our 
Henderson operation, Colorado.
SAFE CLOSURE ACHIEVED AT MIAMI
 In 2021, our Tailings Review Board 
agreed that our Miami, Arizona tailings 
facilities have achieved a “safe closure” 
designation in accordance with the 
requirements of the Global Industry 
Standard on Tailings Management. This 
means that they have been deemed 
to pose no long-term risk to people or 
the environment. The slopes and top 
surfaces of these former operating 
tailings facilities have been under active 
monitoring and reclamation activities, 
and we have performed material 
behavior and geotechnical stability 
analyses and flood scenarios since 
the mid-1990s. These efforts were 
integral to achieving the Safe Closure 
designation.   
To learn more about the Global 
Tailings Standard, refer to the Tailings 
Management section of the report.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 113
In Colorado, we work with Trout Unlimited and the Division of Reclamation, Mining and Safety 
(DRMS) in a multi-year partnership focused on supporting a clean watershed. Our commitment 
assists the Colorado Inactive Mine Reclamation program to leverage funds from government 
agencies, industrial partners, and non-profit environmental organizations to reclaim abandoned 
mine sites that are not associated with our current or prior operations but are primarily within the 
watersheds in which we currently operate or are managing legacy liabilities. We have also invested 
in a Preserve in the Arkansas Valley that will protect 90 acres and open a mile of river to public 
fishing on Gold Medal Trout Waters. The area is also important habitat for bighorn sheep, elk, moose, 
mountain lions, bobcats, bears and bald eagles.  
Our partnership with DRMS and Trout Unlimited also interconnects with our own Colorado legacy 
mine site reclamation at the former Keystone mine site near Crested Butte, Colorado. There, the 
partnership has been integral to the successful design and implementation of reclamation activities 
at the site for the last three years.     
 114
Environmental Compliance 
WHY IT MATTERS
Countries around the world have various laws and regulations that are designed to protect the 
environment. Meeting these requirements is essential to the social license to operate, and it relies 
upon effective due diligence and strong internal processes, policies and practices that drive 
accountability and transparency.
OUR APPROACH
All of our mining and mineral processing operations and technology centers maintain Environmental 
Management Systems (EMS) that are certified to the ISO 14001:2015 standard. As part of our EMS, 
our workforce is trained on site-specific subject areas, trained annually on environmental issues, 
and is supported by environmental professionals working in the field.
Site management teams identify, manage, and mitigate environmental risks through our risk register 
process and the use of environmental critical control systems designed to prevent environmental 
incidents at our operations. Critical controls are focused on the elimination of unplanned off-site 
releases and prevention or minimization of impacts to water and other natural resources.
At the corporate level, subject matter experts (SMEs) train, develop and support our site teams,  
routinely conduct site visits, and in some cases, directly manage work closely with a group of 
site-based experts. Collectively, they are responsible for building technical expertise, ensuring 
consistency in our environmental programs and sharing best practices.
The EMS at each of our operations are independently audited on an annual basis. In 2021, we used 
a combination of virtual and in-person approaches to complete internal EMS audits at 8 sites. 
Internal corporate-led environmental compliance audits were completed at 12 sites. In addition, 
our facilities were inspected by governmental regulatory agencies 116 times, several of which were 
conducted virtually due to ongoing COVID-19 restrictions. Regulatory inspections increased in 2021 
with the lifting of COVID-19 travel restrictions. The successes of our internal audits and regulatory 
inspections demonstrate both the strength of our systems and the commitment of our culture and 
people to maintain compliance even when in-person inspections and audits were paused.  
Cerro Verde maintains a 
native plant nursery near our 
operations in Peru.
2021 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 115
As part of our environmental management commitment at PT-FI, external 
audits have taken place on a routine basis since 1996. The current audit, 
originally due to be completed in 2020, was further delayed in 2021 due 
to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and global health conditions. PT-FI 
initiated the desktop portion of the audit in December 2021, with the 
in-person site visits scheduled to be performed in 2022, subject to health 
conditions on the ground. An executive summary and responses to the 2017 
audit recommendations are posted on our website and an updated summary 
will be provided once the current audit is complete. 
All operations have corrective and preventive action programs associated 
with the overarching EMS as well as audit and inspection findings. These 
actions are reviewed by corporate SMEs to ensure such measures are robust 
and institutionalized for the future.
Freeport had two global environmental targets in 2021: (1) incur zero 
environmental penalties over $100,000 on an individual basis and (2) incur 
zero significant environmental events as defined in our risk register process. 
We met both targets in 2021. Fines levied in 2021 included one Notice 
of Violation (NOV) at El Abra for implementation delays of an online-
groundwater monitoring system ($18,951). 
Typically, when our operations have received an NOV from a regulatory 
agency, the citations have involved brief and minor exceedances of permit 
conditions or other record-keeping violations, as was the case with the El 
Abra NOV. We are committed to continuously improving our environmental 
performance across our operations and following the NOV in El Abra, 
site experts worked collaboratively with water agency and corporate 
representatives to solve the real-time, online connectivity difficulties that 
generated the fine and the issue was resolved.
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE INDICATORS
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
Reportable spills or releases of hazardous or toxic chemicals1
25
17
332
19
20
NOVs related to permit exceedances, spills, releases or other 
compliance matters3
5
10
5
6
9
# of Significant Environmental Events 
(as defined on the risk matrix)
0
1
0
0
0
Cumulative environmental penalties4
$317,000
$0
$124,682
$67,100
$18,951
1	 Reportable spills excludes spills at PT-FI associated with pipeline sabotage. Due to increased security efforts, the number of sabotage-related spills reported at PT-FI decreased from 68 in 2018, to 16 in 2019, to 8 in 2020, to 5 in 2021.
2	 In 2019, there were multiple small (75 kg or less), but reportable events, associated with malfunctioning catalytic oxidizer at our Rotterdam molybdenum processing facility.
3	 NOV is Notice of Violation. When NOVs are rescinded based on the legal appeals process, prior year data are updated. 
4	 2017 penalties paid were from NOVs at Cerro Verde in 2006 and 2008. 2019 penalties paid were from NOVs at Sierrita for dust events in 2018 ($30,000) and a NOV at Cerro Verde in 2007 ($94,682). In addition, we agreed to fund a $200,000 
Supplemental Environmental Project associated with the Sierrita dust events. The Cerro Verde fine was paid in 2019 from a regulatory inspection conducted in 2007 due to an extended legal appeal process. 2020 penalties paid were 
principally from a Sierrita dust event ($55,000) and the failure to obtain a CO2 permit at Rotterdam ($12,000). 2021 penalties paid were associated with delays in commissioning an online, real-time groundwater monitoring system at El Abra.
