PRINCIPLES OF BUSINESS CONDUCT	
The overarching values detailed in our Principles of Business 
Conduct set forth the global system of principles that our workforce 
must follow in all activities – from complying with laws and avoiding 
conflicts of interest to developing positive relationships in local 
communities. The Freeport-McMoRan Supplier Code of Conduct 
sets forth our expectations for our supply chain partners in areas such 
as safety, anti-corruption, environment and human rights.
Our supporting policies, along with external standards and 
initiatives, form the overall framework that guides our sustainability 
programs. Supporting this framework are internal governance and 
management systems that provide the details on how we operate.
GOVERNANCE
The Freeport-McMoRan Board of Directors (board) as a whole is 
responsible for risk oversight, with reviews of certain areas being 
conducted by the relevant board committees that report to the full 
board. In its risk oversight role, the board reviews, evaluates and 
discusses with appropriate members of management whether the risk 
management processes designed and implemented by management 
are adequate in identifying, assessing, managing and mitigating 
material risks facing the company. In addition, as reflected in our 
Principles of Business Conduct, the board seeks to establish a “tone 
at the top” communicating the board’s strong commitment to ethical 
behavior and compliance with the law.
The nature of our business impacts the environment and communities surrounding our 
operations. We mitigate impacts to the extent practicable through advanced control and 
remediation measures. We develop infrastructure, support health, safety and education efforts, 
and provide local employment and business development opportunities. The products we 
produce are critical for sustainability and higher standards of living. Our approach has three  
core elements:
ECONOMIC
Leverage our operating 
and financial expertise, 
technologies and  
supply chain to ensure 
that we remain a  
vibrant, sustainable 
business entity.
ENVIRONMENTAL
Evaluate 
environmental 
aspects continuously 
throughout a project’s 
life cycle to minimize 
adverse impacts and 
promote opportunities.
SOCIAL
Operate safely, and uphold and respect  
human rights. Engage openly and 
transparently with internal and external 
stakeholders and keep our commitments in 
order to build trust. This enhances our ability 
to obtain permits to operate and ensures we 
have a dedicated workforce.
T
o supply essential natural resources to current and future generations, we are guided by our stated 
business objectives, principles and policies, and we continuously strive to improve our sustainable 
development programs. Throughout this report, we report the daily progress our workforce is making 
on key issues, including some emerging, which affect our company and our stakeholders.
OUR APPROACH
6 
Freeport-McMoRan
The board believes that full and open communication between senior 
management and the board is essential to effective risk oversight. 
Our non-executive chairman regularly meets with and discusses 
with our chief executive officer a variety of matters including 
business strategies, opportunities, key challenges and risks facing the 
company, as well as management’s risk mitigation strategies. Senior 
management attends all regularly scheduled board meetings where 
they conduct presentations on various strategic matters involving 
our operations and are available to address any questions or concerns 
raised by the board on risk management-related or any other matters. 
The board oversees the strategic direction of the company, and in 
doing so, considers the potential rewards and risks of our business 
opportunities and challenges, and monitors the development and 
management of risks that impact our strategic goals.
Board committees assist the board in fulfilling its oversight 
responsibilities with respect to certain areas of risk. Each committee 
regularly reports on these matters to the full board. The Corporate 
Responsibility Committee of our board is responsible for overseeing 
our policies and programs related to management of risks associated 
with the company’s safety and health policies and programs, 
environmental policy and implementation programs, human rights 
policy and practices, community health programs and related 
public health and medical matters, community policy and practices, 
governmental and stakeholder relations and social investment and 
sustainable development programs, charitable contributions, and 
political activity and spending practices. The committee examines  
key performance data and receives briefings concerning challenges 
and emerging issues in these areas.
During 2015, the Corporate Responsibility Committee received 
various reports and considered numerous items with a particular focus 
on safety, which included reviewing the root causes of fatal accidents, 
corrective actions implemented to prevent accidents in the future, 
enhancements to our fatality prevention program and improvement 
in our safety procedures and practices. In addition, during the year, 
the Corporate Responsibility Committee reviewed community 
public health services including our malaria and other disease 
prevention programs in Indonesia and the DRC, our global social and 
sustainability programs and expenditures, community engagement 
efforts, political activity and spending practices, the safety reporting 
process at our operations, our risk management and sustainability 
programs, our human rights program, and our tailings stewardship 
program. The Corporate Responsibility Committee also reviewed and 
recommended to our board amendments to our Environmental Policy, 
Safety and Health Policy, Community Policy and Human Rights 
Policy, which our board approved. The Corporate Responsibility 
Committee reports to our board, which provides oversight on all 
matters, including the economic viability of our company – the first 
element of our approach to sustainable development.
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT LEADERSHIP TEAM
The Freeport-McMoRan Sustainable Development Leadership 
Team provides long-term, strategic and tactical operational 
guidance regarding our sustainability commitments and emerging 
issues. The team is sponsored by our Executive Vice President and 
Chief Administrative Officer, and is led by our Vice President of 
Environmental Services and Sustainable Development. The team 
includes all business unit Presidents and Vice President-level or 
senior staff from the safety, supply chain, human resources, sales, 
compliance, and land and water functions.
During 2015, the team reviewed and addressed key issues and 
projects including:
•	 Environmental and Social Responsibility Scorecard 
relating to portion of executive compensation (see 
proxy statement)
•	 Results of the site-level Human Rights Impact 
Assessment at our TFM operation in the DRC
•	 Updated Principles of Business Conduct and associated 
company values to be published in 2016
•	 Minimum sustainability commitments for 
consideration to promote to other commercial interests 
in the global mining sector, potentially through 
commodity associations 
•	 Emerging global regulations and initiatives related to 
product stewardship, including sustainability in the 
value chain and access to markets
•	 Long-term water management and supply projects and 
associated critical partnerships
•	 Our global sustainability program which is aligned 
with the ICMM Sustainable Development Framework, 
including observations from the independent  
assurance provider 
OUR APPROACH
The Sustainable Development Leadership Team meets at corporate headquarters 
in Phoenix to discuss Sustainable Development Risk Register program updates, 
product stewardship and the TFM human rights impact assessment results. 
7
2015 WORKING TOWARD SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT
•	 Engagements with the socially responsible investment 
community and other financial stakeholders regarding 
safety, human rights, community development and 
environmental management
•	 Input into the ICMM Climate Change statement in 
advance of Conference of Parties (COP) 21
•	 Evaluating a variety of topics and learnings through 
participation in peer-to-peer, multi-industry 
associations with a sustainability focus
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
In the mining sector, project life-cycles can span decades. That is 
why early, transparent and consistent engagement with stakeholders 
is critical. Doing so creates mutually beneficial opportunities and 
reduces sustainability-related risks to our plans. We always seek 
strategic partnerships with host governments, communities and 
development partners to ensure the viability of our projects while 
delivering meaningful benefits, including post-closure. 
Our operational-level teams regularly engage with community 
stakeholders, development institutions and nongovernmental 
organizations (NGOs). Mining operations maintain 5-year 
community engagement and development plans that identify  
affected or interested parties and programs for ongoing engagement 
and consultation. Issues raised through stakeholder engagement 
help inform the risks and opportunities identified in each operation’s 
sustainable development risk register and assist in developing social 
investment strategies. Resulting engagements with hundreds of 
entities occur via community foundations, formal grievance systems, 
workshops, participatory group panels or focus groups, town hall 
meetings and surveys.
From a medium to longer-term risk radar perspective,  
Freeport-McMoRan’s corporate Sustainable Development 
Department and senior personnel regularly work with the socially 
responsible investment community and NGOs to understand issues 
of concern or interest and where Freeport-McMoRan may have 
influence to advance sustainability progress such as contributions to 
the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
Richard C. Adkerson, Freeport-McMoRan Inc. President and CEO (center right) 
and Peru Prime Minister Pedro Cateriano (center left) join with Cerro Verde 
stakeholders to inaugurate the expansion project. Prime Minister Cateriano  
stated, “Cerro Verde’s Expansion proves that it is possible to do mining in  
Peru, respecting the regulations, complying with environmental standards  
and, something very important, generating wealth. I would like to emphasize 
something: that conviction of respect to the environment, which will allow the  
Rio Chili, with technical work and state-of-the-art technology, to have a water  
flow ‘respecting the environment’.”
Archbishop Javier del Río presided over prayer during the ceremonies and 
commented, “We will ask God to bless not only this huge infrastructure and its 
good functioning, but also everyone who made this investment possible. At a time 
when other investors chose to stop, some others decided to bet. May God also 
bless the thousands of workers who have made this possible, workers of private 
and public sectors and public officers. May God bless everyone.”
OUR APPROACH
STAKEHOLDERS GATHER TO INAUGURATE THE CERRO VERDE EXPANSION PROJECT
In May 2016, local, national and international stakeholders met to inaugurate the Cerro Verde expansion project. The expansion 
provides a significant positive economic impact to the Arequipa region and Peru, including increased employment opportunities, 
business opportunities with local suppliers of products and services to the mining operations as well as revenues to the 
governments and local communities. A key component to the Cerro Verde expansion is the construction of a wastewater 
collection and treatment facility that provides the increased water requirements for the expanded operations, while improving the 
water quality in the Rio Chili, benefitting more than 1 million people in Arequipa. Cerro Verde’s expanded operations, now operating 
at full rates, will benefit from its large-scale, long-lived reserves and cost efficiencies.
8 
Freeport-McMoRan
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP
Environmental and social performance within operations and of 
product properties is of critical interest to many within the value 
chain and among global regulatory bodies. We generally view this 
interest as a positive opportunity to engage on the critical importance 
of our products for a sustainable future as well as on the sustainability 
performance of our operations. However, we want to communicate 
effectively and efficiently, and are cautious of the potential for 
redundant or unnecessary regulations, policies, initiatives or ad-
hoc requests for auditing schemes concerning our products and 
sustainability within our operations. 
To remain a viable business entity, we must maintain market access 
for our products over the long term. Our multi-functional product 
stewardship team is led by our Vice President of Environmental 
Services and Sustainable Development and is coordinated with our 
global product sales and legal teams with support from technical 
experts. The group regularly addresses topics including: 
•	 Recent draft European Union and European 
Commission proposals regarding “conflict minerals”  
and responsible sourcing 
•	 Business-to-business relationships, which include 
advancing sustainability opportunities in geographic 
regions, by commodity or certain stages within the value 
chain; this includes responsiveness to due diligence 
information requests from value chain members
•	 Analysis and input regarding globally emerging 
regulations, or policies from international 
governmental agencies regarding product labeling  
and operations due diligence 
•	 Emerging nongovernmental sustainability certification 
or reporting initiatives 
•	 Tracking and interfacing on the product stewardship 
work of trade associations, including the International 
Copper Association, ICMM, Cobalt Development 
Institute and International Molybdenum Association 
•	 Public health areas of interest that affect access to 
markets for our various products
•	 Other associated current or emerging mandatory 
compliance requirements
AUDITS AND ASSESSMENTS
To ensure our policy commitments and objectives are being met, we 
implement a combination of audit and assessment programs along 
with an annual program for site-level independent assurance of  
our sustainability framework, which covers the requirements of  
the ICMM Sustainable Development Framework. Every major 
operation undergoes a comprehensive internal audit (including 
contractors) of environmental and health and safety systems at least 
once every two years. Our operations also are routinely inspected by 
regulatory agencies or ministries of host governments. The health 
and safety management systems and environmental management 
systems of our operations obtain independent certification to 
Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) 
18001 and International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 
14001, respectively. These systems include corrective and preventive 
action tracking for internal and external audit findings. From time 
to time, customers or financial institutions also request to conduct 
sustainability-focused audits or assessments at certain facilities. In 
recent months, we have participated in multiple business-to-business 
engagements and sustainability reviews, particularly regarding our 
sustainability practices at TFM.
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT RISK REGISTER
The Freeport-McMoRan Sustainable Development framework is 
implemented based on operation-specific factors and influences, 
including regional context, type of operation and social setting. It 
also includes longer-term monitoring of key trends and issues that 
can affect our business and stakeholders. Essential to our framework 
is the Sustainable Development Risk Register process, which 
prioritizes safety, environmental, social, economic and value chain 
challenges and opportunities based on our views of potential impacts 
to our business and the importance of these issues to stakeholders. 
As part of this process, local multi-disciplined leadership teams 
utilize a matrix with consequence categories, including potential 
safety, community, environmental and production impacts. Our 
Sustainable Development Department works with these teams to 
review processes to ensure prioritization of key business risks and 
implementation of action and monitoring plans. On an annual basis, 
a corporate, cross-functional team of senior personnel reviews the 
Sustainable Development Risk Registers of our major operations. 
This process provides a mechanism to ensure risk profiles are 
commonly understood at the operating and corporate levels.
Resulting sustainability focus areas identified through this  
Sustainable Development Risk Register process are reviewed  
annually by our Sustainable Development Leadership Team and 
communicated to the Corporate Responsibility Committee of the 
board. The focus areas have not changed significantly over recent  
years and are described on the following pages and throughout  
the report.
OUR APPROACH
9
2015 WORKING TOWARD SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT
ARTISANAL MINING 
Illegal artisanal and small-scale miners have limited equipment and expertise with respect to operating in hazardous conditions. The presence of 
these miners and their associated activities can create concerns of violence and personal safety, as well as concerns relating to child labor and poor 
and unsafe working conditions. (p. 26)
BIODIVERSITY
We own, lease and operate large land holdings around the world, some of which are in and adjacent to areas of high biodiversity value. We manage 
our operations in a manner to identify potential impacts and, where practicable, implement actions that conserve and enhance biodiversity, 
including reclamation activities. (p. 32)
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT
Our social and economic development programs are responsive to issues raised by communities, including vulnerable groups such as indigenous 
peoples, and help us maintain good relations and avoid disruptions of operations. Nevertheless, social and political instability in the areas of our 
operations may adversely impact our operations. (p. 22)
CORRUPTION
As a company with global operations, our business may be adversely affected by issues related to corruption. Our international operations must 
comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws of the other jurisdictions in which we 
operate. Any violation of these laws could result in significant criminal or civil fines and penalties, litigation, and loss of operating licenses or 
permits, and may damage our reputation. (p. 17)
ENERGY MANAGEMENT
Carbon-based energy is a significant input in our operations, and our revenues include sales of oil, NGLs and natural gas, and other carbon-based 
energy products. Increased regulation of greenhouse gas emissions may increase our costs and may also affect the demand for the oil and gas we 
produce. We have modeled multiple carbon tax scenarios to understand possible impacts, or the range of possible increases to our operating costs. 
(p. 28)
HUMAN RIGHTS
Our operations may be adversely affected by impacts from security risks stemming from events or activities including political instability, labor 
strikes, illegal artisanal mining and civil strife. The Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights serve as guidelines for our security and 
human rights programs, interactions with host government police and military personnel, and with private security contractors. We also are 
integrating the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights into our business systems. (p. 19)
SUSTAINABILITY FOCUS AREAS
TFM faces a number of security risks associated with illegal artisanal mining and continues to socialize the hazards of this activity.
10 
Freeport-McMoRan
LABOR RELATIONS
As of December 31, 2015, 48 percent of our global labor force was covered by collective labor agreements. We engage openly with our employees 
and union leadership to successfully negotiate labor agreements recognizing that prolonged strikes or other work stoppages at our operations can 
adversely affect our business and local and regional stakeholders. (p. 14) 
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP
Our product stewardship team engages both downstream customers and international governmental agencies on sustainability topics. The  
team also addresses specific environmental and public health areas of interest that affect access to markets for our products within the value  
chain. (p. 9)
SAFETY AND HEALTH
The safety of our workforce at all of our operations is our highest priority. Although we met the lowest Total Recordable Incident Rate in the 
company’s history, we sadly incurred three fatalities in 2015. Our Fatality Prevention program aims to eliminate fatalities by identifying and 
implementing critical controls reinforced by technical training and communications throughout the workforce. (p. 15)
TAILINGS AND WASTE ROCK MANAGEMENT	
Managing the volume of waste rock, leach material and tailings produced in our mining operations presents significant environmental, safety  
and engineering challenges and risks. We maintain large leach pads and tailings impoundments containing viscous material, which are effectively 
large dams that must be engineered, constructed and monitored to assure structural stability and avoid leakages. Our tailings impoundments in 
arid areas must have effective programs to suppress fugitive dust emissions, and we must effectively monitor and treat acid rock drainage at all of 
our operations. (p. 31)
WATER SUPPLY AND MANAGEMENT
Most of our North and South America mining operations are in areas where competition for water supplies is significant. We maintain programs 
to promote efficient use of water and are advancing alternative water supply projects with stakeholders. (p. 30)
Operating the controlled riverine tailings management system is a key focus at PTFI. The leveed deposition area (example segment shown above) contain the footprint of 
coarser tailings and natural sediments being colonized by aquatic plant species. 
SUSTAINABILITY FOCUS AREAS
11
2015 WORKING TOWARD SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT
PERFORMANCE TARGETS
2015 
STATUS
2015 PERFORMANCE DESCRIPTION
TARGET 
DATE
BUSINESS ETHICS
With our online training module, annually train 90% 
of targeted employees who interact with, or have 
the potential to interact with, government officials 
on anti-corruption laws, regulations and company 
policies and procedures
X
Our online anti-corruption training was placed on hold in 2015  
as a result of transitioning to a new training module provider. 
Training has resumed in 2016.
Annually 
Recurring
WORKFORCE
Increase the percentage of women in our workforce, 
including representation in managerial positions,  
to 15%
X
Women comprise 10% of our employee population and hold  
11% of all managerial positions (300), which is relatively  
unchanged from recent years.
Ongoing
SAFETY & HEALTH 
Incur zero fatalitiesa
X
Sadly, we incurred three work-related fatalities at our mining 
operations in 2015.
Annually 
Recurring
Meet company-wide total recordable incident rate 
(TRIR)a of 0.56
 √
We met our target TRIRa at 0.56 for 2015.
Annually 
Recurring
HUMAN RIGHTS
Incur zero grossb human rights violations at our 
operations caused by employees and contractors
X 
A security employee at our TFM operation was charged 
and sentenced for his alleged involvement in a rape on the 
concession. For more information on this event and our human 
rights programs, please see our Voluntary Principles on Security 
and Human Rights 2015 Report to the Plenary on our website.
Annually 
Recurring
COMMUNITIES
Invest (in aggregate) 1% of the average of the 
previous three years annual mining operations 
revenue, as reported in Freeport-McMoRan's 
audited consolidated financial statements, in 
community programs, including in-kind support and 
administration (2015 target of $177 million)
 X
Approximately $165 million was invested in community programs 
across our operations (93% of our target).
Annually 
Recurring
Work with regional and local governments, 
community stakeholders, private sector developer(s) 
and businesses, to commence construction of 
town infrastructure and residential housing in the 
Integrated Development Zone (IDZ) in our TFM 
concession to support sustainable urban growth
Ongoing
Implementation of a limited set of IDZ development options is 
planned for 2016, including establishment of working relationships 
with government stakeholders in the newly-designated province 
of Lualaba.
2016
ENVIRONMENT
Incur zero significant environmental events  
(rating of three or higher on Sustainable  
Development Risk Register)
√ 
We did not incur any significant environmental events. We 
did have 13 spills or releases that were reportable to national 
agencies based on applicable regulations.
Annually 
Recurring
Incur zero penalties more than $100,000 
√ 
Our operations did not incur any penalties exceeding $100,000.
Annually 
Recurring
a. Includes FM O&G
b. 
There is no uniform definition of gross human rights violations under international law; however, the United Nations Office of the High Commissioner report:  
The Corporate Responsibility to Respect Human Rights – An Interpretive Guide, provides guidance on identifying such types of violations.
PERFORMANCE TARGETS
12 
Freeport-McMoRan
T
he ability to achieve our business goals depends on successfully 
recruiting and retaining talented employees from a variety 
of backgrounds. We offer rewarding careers as part of a team that 
embraces safety, sustainability and the importance of giving back to 
the community. With opportunities for continued training, education 
and advancement, we offer employees a culture of professional and 
personal development. We also provide a wide range of competitive 
benefits for health, financial security and quality of life. 
LOCAL HIRING AND SKILLS DEVELOPMENT
We make concerted efforts to hire locally, as this practice incorporates 
local cultures and knowledge into our business systems and helps 
fulfill our commitment to supporting local economic development 
both directly and indirectly. For example, at our largest operation, 
PTFI, located in the remote province of Papua, Indonesia, we 
prioritize the hiring of indigenous Papuans. At year-end 2015,  
99 percent of PTFI employees were Indonesian and of that total,  
36 percent were indigenous Papuans (up from 32 percent four years 
prior). At TFM, located in the DRC, 98 percent of employees are 
Congolese citizens.
Our regional technical training programs prepare community 
members for careers in mining, even though trainees have no 
obligation to join our company. The Nemangkawi Mining Institute in 
Papua, Indonesia has placed nearly 2,600 apprentices into permanent 
employee and contractor positions to date at PTFI, 90 percent of 
whom are indigenous Papuans. As PTFI transitions from open-pit 
mining to underground mining, Nemangkawi is also transitioning 
from focusing on new employee development to focusing on retraining 
existing employees for the underground operating environment.
The San Carlos Training Institute in Arizona was developed from our 
joint partnership with the San Carlos Apache Tribe and provides a local, 
reservation-based training center to increase the employability and skills 
of Apache students. The organically designed program provides training 
courses in heavy equipment operations and industrial maintenance. 
Through December 2015, a total of 714 students have entered the 
program and 304 have graduated – over half of whom have been hired or 
are in the process of being hired by the company. At year-end 2015, we 
employed approximately 300 Native Americans at our U.S. operations, 
an increase of over 40 percent from four years prior.
WORKFORCE
EMPLOYEES
Approximately 34,500
	 36%	
North America
	 35%	
Indonesia
	 15%	
South America
	 10%	
Africa
	
4%	
Europe/Other
CONTRACTORS
Approximately 37,500
	 55%	
Indonesia
	 17%	
South America
	 16%	
Africa
	 11%	
North America
	
1%	
Europe/Other
Workforce data includes FM O&G
Over 300 Native American students have graduated from the San Carlos Training 
Institute, where they received training in fields including heavy equipment operations 
and maintenance, welding, electrical work and instrumentation. Yvette Quade, a 
recent graduate, is now a haul truck driver at the Safford operation.
13
2015 WORKING TOWARD SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT
LABOR RELATIONS
At year-end 2015, our workforce consisted of approximately 34,500 
employees and 37,500 contractors. We work cooperatively with 
27 unions worldwide. Approximately 48 percent of our employee 
population is covered by collective bargaining agreements, 9 percent 
of which is covered by agreements that will be renegotiated during 
2016. Our policy is to ensure fair treatment and work conditions for 
all employees, including rights to freedom of association and collective 
bargaining. Employees have the right to exercise freedom of association 
at all of our operations. During 2015, PTFI and the employee union 
agreed to a new two-year Collective Labor Agreement at our Grasberg 
operation in Indonesia. During the successful and collaborative 
negotiation process, there were no work stoppages. 
Due to the market downturn in 2015, we revised our production 
plans to adjust for the lower commodity prices. Unfortunately the 
lower production meant our workforce also had to be reduced. About 
1,100 positions in the Americas were eliminated in 2015. The stress 
of facing possible job loss takes its toll on everyone, that is why we 
focus on transparency and fairness when conducting a reduction-in-
force process. 
In North America, eligible impacted employees were offered 
voluntary resignation packages, early retirement programs, severance 
packages and outplacement services. Employees were also encouraged 
to transfer to other locations when qualified for an open position.
At El Abra in Chile, we implemented a short-duration shutdown and 
the 648 employees who were laid off during that time were provided 
supplemental severance benefits. The plant safely and peacefully 
restarted with new schedules and crew assignments. 
DIVERSITY
We operate in regions of varying ethnic, religious and cultural 
backgrounds and are generally the largest employer in local 
communities. The resulting diverse backgrounds and perspectives 
within our workforce are an asset to our business. We prohibit 
discrimination and harassment, and our Principles of Business 
Conduct and Human Rights Policy require that all employees treat 
everyone in and around our operations with dignity and respect.
Freeport-McMoRan defines discrimination as an act or practice 
of treating a person differently than others, causing a negative 
impact, based on that person belonging to a class or category rather 
than treating the person fairly on the basis of individual merit. 
Discrimination can take a number of forms and can be based on 
various categories, such as disability, use of genetic information, age, 
race, ethnicity, religion and gender.
The Freeport-McMoRan Compliance Line, a phone system 
managed by an independent third party, allows concerns to be 
reported anonymously. In 2015, of the reports made through the 
Freeport-McMoRan Compliance Line, 40 included allegations of 
some form of discriminatory or harassing conduct. Sixteen of these 
reports included allegations that were substantiated, and appropriate 
disciplinary and remedial action was taken.
Fiorella “Fio” Giana, Bagdad mine manager, was awarded the Medal of Merit Under 40 
award from the Mining Foundation of the Southwest, the first woman to receive the 
honor. Each year, the foundation selects a recipient under age 40 who through their 
leadership has made a significant contribution to mining.
	
Africa	
Indonesia	
Europe/other	
South America	
North America	
Company-wide
	
98%	
75%	
67%	
64%	
<1%	
48%
PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES UNDER COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS
By Operating Region
WORKFORCE
14 
Freeport-McMoRan
S
afety is integral to all Freeport-McMoRan operations, is 
the responsibility of all employees, and is managed by a 
formal structure starting with our Safety and Health Policy. Our 
board and senior management team believe that proper safety 
and health management enhances production and reduces costs – 
otherwise known to us as Safe Production. Our board also requires 
comprehensive audits to assure the safety management system is 
effective, weaknesses are identified and resources are applied to 
achieve the company’s policy objectives.
Our Health and Safety Management System consists of a  
framework for managing risks and compliance obligations.  
Our management system is certified in accordance with the 
internationally recognized OHSAS 18001 standard. OHSAS 
surveillance audits are conducted at our metal and mining operations 
on a yearly basis. Twenty-four OHSAS surveillance audits were 
conducted in 2015. Fatality prevention audits, conducted by an 
independent organization using experts within the mining sector, 
focus specifically on high-risk activities.
We draw no distinction between contractors and our own  
employees with regard to health and safety performance and 
reporting. The Freeport-McMoRan Contractor Safety Manual 
defines the minimal expectations and requirements for contractors 
working at our operations. Site-specific training is conducted with 
each contractor regarding health and safety matters specific to their 
work location, including task-specific hazard identification and 
control implementation. Training on regulatory-specific topics also 
occurs regularly.
We measure progress toward achieving our objective against regularly 
established benchmarks, including measuring company-wide Total 
Recordable Incident Rates (TRIR) across our businesses. Our TRIR, 
 
including contractors, was 0.56 per 200,000 man-hours worked in 
2015, meeting our target. The company-wide TRIR in 2015 ties 2014 
for the lowest in the company’s history. We worked 200.5 million 
hours in 2015 compared to 202.5 million hours in the prior year, and 
we recorded a total of 563 reportable injuries in 2015 compared to 
567 in 2014. 
FATALITY PREVENTION
Working with industry experts through our Fatality Prevention 
Program, we implement critical controls and aim to eliminate 
hazards completely. Ensuring workforce understanding of the critical 
controls necessary to mitigate fatal risks is our clear focus. In 2015, 
we focused on educating our leaders in fatality prevention techniques, 
followed by training sessions for all employees. Approximately 
40,000 workforce members were trained in seven different languages 
over the course of the year. 
In 2015, we also established proactive metrics or leading indicators 
around our fatality prevention efforts. These will be utilized in 2016 
to develop Safe Production plans and objectives to drive process 
improvements. The intent is to engage employees and leaders to 
drive proactive safety activities. These objectives will be focused 
on risk reduction activities such as critical control improvements, 
effective use of risk registers, critical control verification auditing and 
reduction of high-risks tasks performed.
When hazards cannot be eliminated from a working environment, 
technologies we implement include:
•	 Collision Avoidance Systems (CAS) for large haul 
trucks and mining machinery that have extensive blind 
spots, and often travel roadways with limited visibility  
•	 Driver Safety System (DSS) technology, which is a 
non-intrusive, in-cab solution that alerts operators 
instantly if fatigue is detected 
•	 Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS) and slope stability 
radar to monitor changing mine environments, including 
pit slopes, tailings storage impoundments and leach pads
In 2015, the Global Significant Risk (GSR) reviews continued with 
subject matter experts from operations, maintenance and the safety 
function. The purpose is to set minimum policy requirements and 
identify potential gaps in existing guidelines or procedures. Through 
these reviews, we identified the critical controls being used effectively 
at certain operations and within the industry, and we shared that 
knowledge at all operations.
* Includes FM O&G 
TRIR = [(Fatalities + Lost Time Incidents + Restricted Duty Incidents + Medical Treatment) x 200,000] / Total Hours Worked 
	
2011	
2012	
2013*	
2014*	
2015*
Workplace Fatalities	
5	
6	
35	
7	
3
Total Recordable Incident Rate	
0.61	
0.58	
0.74	
0.56	
0.56
Occupational Illness Cases 	
16	
25	
41	
46	
43
SAFETY AND HEALTH SUMMARY DATA
Including Contractors
SAFETY AND HEALTH
15
2015 WORKING TOWARD SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT
2015 WORKPLACE FATALITIES
Including Contractors
OPERATION
DATE
EVENT DESCRIPTION
PTFI 
Papua, Indonesia
January
A contractor was fatally injured when he was pinched between an underground Getman flatbed truck and the steel 
door of a shop at the surface mill area. 
Cerro Verde 
Arequipa, Peru
January
A contractor supervisor was struck by lightning and killed while he and his crew were evacuating due to changing 
weather conditions. 
PTFI 
Papua, Indonesia
July
A metallurgist was fatally injured when he was caught and pulled into a tail pulley of a running belt conveyor while 
trying to dislodge a ball using a steel pipe.
SAFETY AND HEALTH
PTFI operators remotely pilot automated loaders from the underground mines 
control facility, maintaining worker safety and increased productivity.
»
» Aviation Safety 
»
» Berm Management 
»
» Blasting 
»
» Bluestake (Locating 
Utilities Prior to Work) 
»
» Bulk Material Handling 
– Conveyor Belt 
Management 
»
» Bus Safety 
»
» Confined Space Entry 
»
» Crane Operation 
(Mobile and Overhead) 
»
» Specific Electrical 
Policies 
»
» Energy Control – 
LOTOTO
»
» Excavation and 
Trenching 
»
» Fatigue Management 
»
» Fire Prevention 
»
» HDPE Pipe Handling  
& Transportation 
»
» Hot Work 
»
» Mobile Equipment 
Operation 
»
» Open Hole  
»
» Overhead Power Line 
»
» Rigging and 
Suspended Loads 
»
» Round Stock 
Unloading and Storage 
»
» Slope Stability and 
Ground Control 
»
» Stockpile Management 
»
» Tailings and 
Impoundment 
Stewardship 
»
» Working at Heights  
(Fall Protection) 
PROJECT SAFETY HIGHLIGHTS
In Papua, Indonesia, we are developing the largest underground block 
cave mining operations in the world where through surface control 
rooms we operate cutting-edge automation technology to improve safety 
and production efficiency. This includes remote automation, operation 
and monitoring of trains, loaders, ore chutes, conveyors and ventilation 
systems. We are implementing an updated ground control management 
plan including high definition 3D scanners to detect ground movement. 
The scanners consist of a series of wireless extensometer devices to measure 
convergence in real time, and a micro-seismic listening system. 
Our Cerro Verde expansion project in Peru includes the world’s largest 
concentrating facility. At the project’s peak, over 17,000 construction 
workers were transported daily through steep mountainous terrain. Vehicle 
Safety Monitoring (VSM) systems installed on approximately 375 busses 
allowed for the monitoring of driver behaviors including vehicle speed, 
rapid acceleration and hard braking. One month following implementation, 
speeding events were reduced by 80 percent.
GLOBAL SIGNIFICANT RISKS
16 
Freeport-McMoRan
BUSINESS ETHICS
W
e are committed to the highest level of ethical and legal 
conduct. The Freeport-McMoRan Principles of Business 
Conduct are a commitment to integrity and define the expected 
behavior of all employees and our board. We conduct comprehensive 
training on our Principles of Business Conduct, including annual 
certification of management-level employees (approximately  
97 percent were trained in 2015). This process consisted of  
computer-based training, as well as a signed certification that  
the employee understands the Principles of Business Conduct and 
is not aware of any cases of non-compliance. Principles of Business 
Conduct training is also provided annually to non-management 
employees on a rotating basis by geographic location. 
ANTI-CORRUPTION
Corruption is sometimes widespread in local government systems 
and cultures near our operations. We do not tolerate the offering or 
payment of bribes, kickbacks or other similar payments to any person 
or organization or government official to secure advantages for our 
business. Likewise, we do not accept any of these payments. Our Anti-
Corruption Policy and Guidelines require compliance with the U.S. 
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (FCPA) and other relevant anti-
corruption laws, including local laws.
The company developed an online anti-corruption training module in 
2012. Along with the transition to a new third party training provider, 
the company will introduce a new anti-corruption module in 2016. 
Going forward, completion of the anti-corruption training will be 
required annually. The online training is not meant to replace our 
existing classroom training programs; rather, it has been developed to 
supplement existing systems and extend the reach of the company’s 
overall compliance efforts. In the future, we will continue to broaden 
our training selection process to include additional employees within 
key departments and executive-level groups who may interact with 
government officials. This approach is expected to increase the number 
of employees selected for the training and provide a more consistent 
and automated selection process.
During 2015, we held in-person classroom training at Cerro Verde, 
corporate offices, FM O&G, PTFI, TFM, and for Exploration 
teams in Serbia. Training was also conducted for support functions, 
including the Accounting, Communications, Environmental 
Services, Global Supply Chain, Human Resources, Legal, and 
Sales and Marketing departments along with senior management 
responsible for approval procedures and internal controls. In  
addition, classes were held for 99 contractors at PTFI. Principles 
of Business Conduct, FCPA and Fair Competition training was 
also provided to the Climax Molybdenum and Sales and Marketing 
management teams. 
In recognition of the potential legal liability that could result from 
actions of our business partners under the FCPA and other laws, 
the company has implemented its online due diligence platform, 
the Freeport Compliance eXchange (FCeX). FCeX is a survey-
based software platform designed to assess risk in the areas of 
anti-corruption, international trade and human rights. FCeX has 
significantly enhanced the company’s ability to identify, assess and 
mitigate compliance risks.
Annually, Freeport-McMoRan performs company-wide audits with 
the assistance of our internal audit firm to assess risk and plan for 
the next year’s audit strategy. Formal fraud risk assessments have 
been implemented at Atlantic Copper, corporate offices, FM O&G, 
and PTFI, and mapped with business controls which are tested and 
reviewed annually. The fraud risk assessments consist of more than 
100 risk scenarios spanning across more than 15 process areas, such as 
Asset Management, Purchasing, Payables, Financial Reporting, etc. 
All of these risk assessments include corruption as a risk factor.
INFORMATION AND REPORTING
Freeport-McMoRan maintains a Compliance Line to provide 
guidance and assistance to workforce members with any questions 
or concerns related to our Principles of Business Conduct, policies 
or procedures. To encourage our workforce to raise any potential 
violations of business conduct, we also provide anonymous  
reporting through our compliance system. Spain, which prohibits 
anonymous reporting in accordance with Spain’s Data Protection 
Act (Organic Law 15/1999 on the Protection of Personal Data), 
is an exception. During 2015, 268 reports were made through the 
Freeport-McMoRan Compliance Line relating to various topics, 
including employee workplace conduct; environment, health, and 
safety; protecting company assets; and conflicts of interest. All 
reports are investigated and, if substantiated, appropriate disciplinary 
action is taken including possible termination of employment.
Freeport-McMoRan’s Global Compliance Team meets for its annual meeting at 
corporate headquarters in May 2015 to address Principles of Business Conduct 
subject matter ranging from anti-corruption programs to anonymous, non-retaliation 
reporting systems.
17
2015 WORKING TOWARD SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT
TRANSPARENCY OF GOVERNMENT PAYMENTS
Freeport-McMoRan has endorsed and committed to support the 
Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) since 2008. 
EITI is a global standard to promote transparent and accountable 
management of natural resources. The initiative is a commitment by 
governments to disclose revenues received, and by oil, gas and mining 
companies to disclose natural resource payments to governments in 
an annual EITI report. In implementing countries, the initiative is 
supported by governments, extractives companies and civil society 
working together in a multi-stakeholder group forum.
Today, Freeport-McMoRan maintains significant mining operations 
in EITI implementing countries, including the DRC, Indonesia, 
Peru and the United States. Senior-level Freeport-McMoRan 
employees are representatives on these countries’ multi-stakeholder 
groups or are very active within the in-country processes. A company 
executive also serves on the EITI International Board of Directors. 
In April 2015, we were honored to have hosted visits of the EITI 
International Board and Secretariat, along with other stakeholders, 
to our TFM copper and cobalt operation in the DRC. A similar 
visit was hosted by our Cerro Verde operation near Arequipa, Peru 
in 2012. These visits included the opportunity for local stakeholders 
to interact with the Board, Secretariat and managers from these 
operations. To help support a successful seventh EITI Global 
Conference in Lima, Peru in February 2016, Freeport-McMoRan 
provided a financial sponsorship and multiple employees attended  
as delegates.
The payments our company makes to host governments via taxes, 
royalties and other obligations are a significant contribution to 
national, regional and local development. We believe that increased 
transparency of natural resource revenues and payments promotes 
better governance and accountability regarding the distribution of 
natural resource revenues. In addition to our country-level EITI 
commitments, our practice is to report annual material cash payments 
to governments, including sub-national payments, in all countries 
where we conduct business, as presented below.
For the year ended	
U.S.	
Chile	
Peru	
Indonesia	
DRC	
Other	
Total 
December 31, 2015 ($ millions)                   	
	
	
	
	
	
Countriesb
 
Corporate Income Taxes, Net of Refunds	
$ (165  	
$  56  	
$ 113  	
$     6  	
$ 187  	
$   9  	
$   206   
Withholding Taxes on Foreign Dividends 	
-	
135	
-	
1	
-	
-	
136 
Employee Payroll Taxes 	
418	
12	
9	
64	
42	
23	
568 
Royalties and Net Severance Taxes 	
177	
12	
12	
122	
24	
-	
347 
Property Taxes 	
138	
1	
-	
17	
-	
2	
158 
Other Taxes and Fees 	
125	
12	
162	
169	
127	
(17	
578
Total 	
$ 693  	
$228  	
$296  	
$379  	
$380  	
$17  	
$1,993  
a. 
This schedule reflects a voluntary effort by Freeport-McMoRan to capture its cash payments to governments (net of refunds), including payments by FM O&G.  
Schedule includes sub-national payments.
b. 
Represents cash payments to governments by Freeport-McMoRan’s other business groups that are located outside of the countries where Freeport-McMoRan  
conducts its primary operations.
CASH PAYMENTS TO GOVERNMENTSa
BUSINESS ETHICS
Freeport-McMoRan’s Dr. Jim Miller (center) joins fellow EITI International Board 
members, Congolese officials and other stakeholders for a tour of TFM’s 
operations and community development programs.
  )
  )
18 
Freeport-McMoRan
HUMAN RIGHTS
W
e are committed to respecting human rights. Our Human 
Rights Policy requires us (and our contractors) to conduct 
business in a manner consistent with the Universal Declaration of 
Human Rights, and to align our human rights due diligence practices 
with the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human 
Rights (UN Guiding Principles).
Our site-specific human rights programs are consistent with our 
corporate Human Rights Policy, in-country laws and regulations, and 
the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights (Voluntary 
Principles). Our human rights compliance officers oversee compliance 
and training, as well as grievance mechanisms for reporting, 
documenting and following up on human rights allegations that 
are reported in our areas of operation. We promote human rights 
awareness through outreach and the provision of training to our 
employees, contractors and local communities, and we protect anyone 
who reports suspected violations. 
In 2015, we continued to integrate the UN ‘Protect, Respect and 
Remedy’ framework and the supporting Guiding Principles into our 
business. This included coordination between corporate resources and 
operational teams to review site sustainable development risk registers 
from a human rights perspective and to identify related risks, 
beyond traditional security matters. We worked with a third party 
to complete a site-level human rights impact assessment (HRIA) at 
our TFM operation in the DRC. TFM was prioritized for a site-level 
assessment on the basis that it was identified as our highest ranking 
site for both potential and actual impacts in the corporate-level 
HRIA completed in 2014.
Our multi-sector industry dialogue on human rights training and 
due diligence practices continued through the Business for Social 
Responsibility human rights working group and Sustainability 50, 
an executive-level peer to peer sharing forum. In addition, our team 
regularly engages with socially responsible investors and downstream 
members of our value chain to discuss and receive feedback and ideas 
on issues ranging from illegal artisanal mining to our public human 
rights reporting efforts. 
TFM HUMAN RIGHTS IMPACT ASSESSMENT
The TFM HRIA built upon the methodology developed for 
the corporate HRIA, but included extensive local stakeholder 
engagement. The exercise involved the engagement of more than 70 
stakeholders in and around TFM, and in the broader southeastern 
DRC, representing employees (such as managers, workers and 
trade union representatives), the community (such as women’s 
representatives, farmers, traditional leaders and doctors) and third 
parties (such as public and private security providers, public officials 
and NGOs). 
The TFM HRIA applied the ‘but for’ test, asking whether the impact 
would have taken place in the absence of TFM, and whether the 
impact would have been as severe in the absence of TFM. Alleged 
impacts were included even if there was uncertainty as to the facts 
behind them and/or the causative relationship to TFM.  
The high severity and high volume/low severity impacts identified by 
the TFM HRIA included the following:
Employees (including supply chain)
•	 Higher severity criminal attacks against TFM 
personnel, including by illegal artisanal miners
•	 Higher severity health and safety impacts reflecting  
the latent risks associated with mining 
•	 A relatively high volume of lower severity impacts 
reflecting ‘normal’ workplace human resource issues 
•	 Possible worker-related impacts in the operation’s 
supply and logistics chain relating to working 
conditions and health and safety
Community
•	 A large volume of lower severity impacts linked to 
property damage and resettlement. This reflects 
impacts on local agricultural land, as well as 
resettlement activity (current and historic). In addition 
to the underlying causes, the volume of identified 
impacts reflect: (a) TFM’s mature community 
grievance mechanisms and resettlement compensation 
framework; and (b) the monetized nature of the claims, 
which may encourage affected individuals to file  
formal grievances 
•	 A smaller number of higher severity impacts relating to 
community health and safety, with a specific focus on 
traffic/vehicle incidents
Third-parties
•	 Higher severity impacts including incidents associated 
with illegal artisanal miners and the conduct of the 
police that resulted in fatalities and/or serious injury. 
Findings reflect the very poor health and safety 
conditions in which illegal artisanal miners operate, as 
well as violent interactions between the police, illegal 
artisanal miners and civilians
19
2015 WORKING TOWARD SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT
The most serious impacts were associated with illegal artisanal 
mining and the conduct of host government security, and 
were already recognized by the TFM management team. 
Unfortunately, limited scope exists for TFM to make 
significant further improvements to its management of human 
rights issues associated with these issues. This, in part, reflects 
the extensive management measures TFM already has in 
place, as well as the involvement of independent external 
parties. Nonetheless, TFM is committed to continuing its 
engagement with government, industry participants and other 
stakeholders on these complex issues.
The HRIA results confirmed that TFM’s mature workforce 
grievance mechanism was effective in identifying employee-
related impacts, and that its community grievance 
management system was largely effective in capturing 
community-related impacts. It also suggested that TFM’s ISO 
14001 environmental management system and OHSAS 18001 
health and safety management system was relatively effective 
in helping minimize related human rights impacts.
Action plans for the potential and actual impacts described 
above are embedded and tracked within TFM’s sustainable 
development risk register process. These plans were developed 
to support continuous improvement of existing systems and 
processes, and establish new measures to investigate, avoid, 
mitigate and/or remedy identified human rights impacts.
We conducted international-level stakeholder meetings aimed 
at verifying the TFM HRIA methodology and reviewing 
the findings of the assessment. Approximately 20 entities, 
representing academia, investors, business partners and the 
NGO community, participated in these meetings. Lessons 
learned from the TFM HRIA will further shape our global 
human rights strategy. We are developing a work plan to roll 
out the site-level HRIA framework to other higher-risk sites 
over time.
HUMAN RIGHTS
Dashboard of human rights issues 
addressed by the TFM HRIA
EMPLOYEES
Working conditions
Safe and healthy working conditions
Contractors / workers  
in the supply chain
Discrimination
Children’s rights, including 
access to education
Judicial system (access to remedy)
Privacy
Forced and compulsory labor
COMMUNITY
Standards of living /quality of life
Community health and safety 
Economic activity / livelihoods
Minorities and indigenous peoples
Displacement / resettlement
Corruption
Freedom of association  
and collective bargaining
Cultural heritage
NGOs and civil society groups
Child labor
THIRD PARTIES
Conduct of private security forces
Conduct of government 
security forces
Contribution to conflict
Presence of artisanal /  
small-scale miners
Increased exposure to  
natural hazards
ENVIRONMENT
Pollution
Water security
Waste and hazardous  
materials management
TFM HUMAN RIGHTS IMPACT ASSESSMENT
Population influx has transformed the towns of Tenke and Fungurume from small 
rural settlements into urbanized areas. The rapid growth, somewhat driven by illegal 
artisanal mining activities, has put considerable pressure on infrastructure and public 
services. Pictured above, an aerial view of Fungurume and map showing its growth 
from an estimated 40,000 in 2005 (green) to 150,000 in 2015 (purple).
20 
Freeport-McMoRan
HUMAN RIGHTS
SECURITY
The Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights serve as guidelines for our security and human 
rights programs, interactions with host government police and military personnel, and with private security 
contractors. We have remained active in the Voluntary Principles organization and have recently been 
appointed to a two-year term on the Steering Committee. For more detailed information, please see our 
Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights 2015 Report to the Plenary on our website.
Freeport-McMoRan recognizes the international 
concern over trade in minerals referred to as 
“conflict minerals” (defined by Dodd-Frank as tin, 
tantalum, tungsten and gold) that are being mined 
in certain areas of the DRC. The company is also 
attentive to concerns of stakeholders and 
minerals value chain participants 
regarding responsible sourcing of 
metals, with a focus on potential 
and actual human rights impacts 
associated with unregulated and 
illegal artisanal mining of other 
minerals in the DRC. 
TFM, an affiliate of Freeport-McMoRan, 
is an industrial copper and cobalt mine 
in southeastern DRC. While copper and 
cobalt mined at TFM are not classified 
as “conflict minerals” under Dodd-Frank, 
TFM is committed to apply a duty of care  
in product stewardship commensurate 
with its policy commitments and conditions  
in the DRC. 
TFM implements robust product control and 
custody procedures to ensure that it mines, 
processes and sells only those minerals that 
originate within its mining concession. These 
procedures include specific actions to track 
illegally mined ore confiscated by government 
authorities within the TFM concession. TFM  
does not purchase ore that is not commercially 
mined by its own operations 
within its concession. TFM 
maintains a system to track its 
copper and cobalt products 
from its operations to the 
point of transfer to customers 
outside of the DRC.
TFM’s product control 
and custody procedures 
are designed to address 
Freeport-McMoRan’s policy 
commitments of ethical 
business practices and 
respect for human rights. 
Due to the importance of these procedures for 
the respect of human rights in the minerals value 
chain, Freeport-McMoRan contracted for and 
received independent assurance of TFM’s product 
control and custody procedures in April 2016 for 
the 2015 period.
PRODUCT CONTROL AT TFM
Copper and Cobalt Product 
Control and Custody
Tenke Fungurume Mining 
(DRC)
2015
INDEPENDENT 
ASSURANCE 
STATEMENT 
21
2015 WORKING TOWARD SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT
M
ining operations inevitably create economic, social and 
environmental impacts on local communities. Some of these 
impacts include changes to land use and population influx, while 
others include economic opportunities and development in the areas 
of infrastructure, health and education. We engage openly and 
transparently with local stakeholders throughout project lifecycles 
to build the trust needed to operate and grow our business. Our 
Community Policy calls for collaboration with communities to 
minimize and mitigate unavoidable adverse impacts and to cultivate 
opportunities to maximize benefits.
Engagement and consultation ensure communities have input into our 
development and operating projects, promote a better understanding 
of our business, and ultimately reduce risk to our business. 
Communication with local stakeholders takes place via a number of 
channels, such as formally through open houses linked to regulatory 
processes, informally through interactions with our community 
development representatives in the field, or through community 
partnership panels and community investment foundations.
GRIEVANCE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
Our operations utilize a community grievance management system for 
recording, processing and responding to local concerns. Approximately 
525 community grievances were recorded at worldwide operations during 
2015, of which over half were related to resettlement at TFM. At TFM, 
an Independent Mediation Committee (IMC) provides an impartial 
venue to review and resolve grievances related to resettlement. Mediation 
occurs only if the complainant is not satisfied with TFM’s resolution 
to the initial grievance recorded through the grievance system and the 
complainant requests the grievance be presented to the IMC.  
In 2015, the IMC received 26 cases and resolved 38, including cases  
from the prior year. Three cases remained in process at the end of the 
year. IMC cases related to community resettlement, property damage 
and employment.
COMMUNITY INVESTMENT
Freeport-McMoRan’s community investment strategy addresses 
high-priority needs and facilitates local capacity building to sustain 
communities post-closure. Our social investment criteria are a set of 
guidelines designed to ensure that resources are used effectively to 
decrease community dependencies on our operations and promote 
sustainable futures. 
In addition to direct community investment from operations and 
the corporate Freeport-McMoRan Foundation, we have established 
community trust funds or social funds in Chile, the DRC, Indonesia, 
Peru and the U.S. These foundations are managed by community 
members who determine the allocation of funds to programs that 
focus on education, health and economic development. 
During 2015, we continued our support of improvement in science, 
technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) education 
through teacher development and retention initiatives, programs to 
spark student interest and efforts to strengthen STEM education 
systems. We launched an initiative in the U.S. specifically aimed at 
professional development for elementary and middle school math 
COMMUNITIES
* 
Includes arts, culture, heritage, resettlement and employee programs such as 
Matching Gifts and United Way.
2015 COMMUNITY INVESTMENT
$165 million
	 19%
	 17%
	 15%
	 14%
	 12%
	 23%
Community Trust Funds
Economic Development 
 
and Infrastructure
Safety, Health and 
Environment
Education and Training
Administration
Other*
Note: Amounts exclude social expenditure from operating budgets
a. 
There were two separate foundations prior to the acquisition of Phelps Dodge in 2007. Totals reported only reflect the time period from the acquisition forward (2007-2015) 
when all resources were combined.
b. In 2009, there was one Community Investment Fund. One to two Funds were established each year thereafter, with six in total by 2013.
c. 
From 2008-2011, Cerro Verde contributed $132 million to the Cerro Verde Civil Association. The Association manages these contributions for projects in the Arequipa  
Region, ranging from education to basic infrastructure.
($ millions)	
Year Started	
2015 Contributions	
Contributions Through 2015
PTFI Partnership Fund (Indonesia)	
1996	
$27.0	
$660.0
Freeport-McMoRan Foundation (U.S. / some international)	
2007	
$13.5	
$109.0
Cerro Verde Civil Association (Peru)	
2008	
         –	
$132.0
TFM Social Community Fund (DRC)	
2009	
$   3.7	
$   23.6
North America Community Investment Funds (AZ, CO, NM)	
2009	
$   2.6	
$   11.2 
Fundación Freeport-McMoRan (Chile) 	
2013	
$   1.8	
$      3.3
COMMUNITY TRUST FUNDS
a
b
c
22 
Freeport-McMoRan
COMMUNITIES
teachers in rural school districts near our operations to increase their 
content knowledge and confidence in teaching math so students can 
master core mathematical concepts by the eighth grade. We also 
invested significantly in higher education programs that trained 
students in the trades, as well as four-year degree programs related 
to our business needs. Our focus on STEM is aligned with the 
long-term technical requirements of our business, as well as outdoor 
environmental education opportunities near most of our operations. 
We have also advanced our investments in women’s economic 
empowerment programs, such as “DreamBuilder–The Women’s 
Business Creator,” an online entrepreneurship skills training program 
that has reached more than 11,460 women in 47 countries around 
the world via a network of 75 dedicated partners on the ground. 
Of the women enrolled, 94 percent are from countries in our focus 
area of Latin and North America and 6 percent are from other 
parts of the world. Impact evaluation of graduates over a year after 
graduation indicated that 92 percent increased sales, 44 percent hired 
new employees and 66 percent paid themselves a salary versus only 
18 percent who did so before participating in the program. Other 
empowerment initiatives included an agricultural training program 
in the DRC in partnership with Women for Women International, as 
well as PTFI’s mother and child clinics.
INDIGENOUS PEOPLES
Our community engagement and local investment objectives are 
significantly focused on indigenous peoples in Papua, Indonesia; 
Native Americans in the United States; and the communities of Alto 
Loa in Chile (Chile’s First People). Through community engagement, 
cultural promotion and preservation projects, as well as training and 
development programs, we seek to address the needs, cultures and 
customs of indigenous peoples near our operations. Engaging with 
groups focused on indigenous peoples’ rights at the local, national 
and international levels is also important for two-way sharing of 
information about approaches to indigenous peoples’ topics in  
varying geographies. 
PTFI has engaged with indigenous Papuan tribes for decades, 
including through numerous formal agreements to promote workforce 
skills training, health, education and basic infrastructure development. 
The desire of indigenous Papuans to preserve cultural heritage is shared 
by PTFI and demonstrated through support for cultural festivals 
and books documenting the social uniqueness of the Amungme and 
Kamoro tribes. In 2015, PTFI continued to evaluate the effectiveness 
of alternate options for Kamoro community members whose estuary 
transport routes are impacted by sedimentation associated with the 
controlled riverine tailings management system. Provision of smaller 
sized boats, in addition to 50 passenger vessels, for route flexibility 
as well as additional local economic development programs were 
identified as additional mitigation measures during the year. 
In Chile, our El Abra operation near Calama engages regularly with 
10 indigenous communities, and the operation has established an 
Agreement of Cooperation with the Community of Conchi Viejo 
whose town is located between the plant and the mine, and also with 
the Community of Tiara. During 2015, we implemented additional, 
formalized engagement, assessment and management systems to 
effectively address social impacts and community development topics 
within the corridor surrounding the operation where we have a 
future expansion opportunity. Coupled with the Freeport-McMoRan 
Chile Foundation for social investment, we significantly increased 
our strategic stakeholder engagement and community development 
activities in these communities in 2015.
In the U.S., we continued engagement with our tribal partners 
including the Hualapai Tribe, San Carlos Apache Tribe, Tohono 
O’odham Nation and the White Mountain Apache Tribe, investing 
over $2.7 million in Native American initiatives, including our San 
Carlos Training Institute. Education was identified as a priority issue 
The Gerbang Emas (Golden Gate) program, implemented by PTFI and the Mimika 
Regency, promotes indigenous community participation in agricultural cooperatives. 
As part of the program, over 300 local farmers grow and market cocoa, coffee and 
coconut products.
The TFM Social Community Fund engages with a formal Stakeholder Forum 
comprised of community leaders whom prioritize local sustainability needs. Above, 
the Secretariat and Education Working Group of the Forum discuss a women’s 
literacy program to be implemented in the town of Tenke.
23
2015 WORKING TOWARD SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT
for our partner tribes, and our Native American Scholarship program 
awarded 39 college scholarships to tribal students who are attending 
colleges and universities across the U.S. Additional support for the 
development of future youth leadership was provided to the United 
National Indian Tribal Youth organization. Through our Native 
American Partnership Fund we funded nine programs including the 
GuVo Youth summer enrichment program, the Himdag Ki: Exhibition 
Space Renovation project and an Elder Empowerment program. 
Additionally, in partnership with Thunderbird School of Global 
Management, we developed and hosted Project DreamCatcher, a week 
long business-skills training program for women entrepreneurs from 
our four partnership tribal communities. The program engaged 17 
women in marketing, financial planning and strategy courses along 
with integrated mentorship, guidance on setting and achieving goals 
and post-program online business coaching. 
TFM COMMUNITY RESETTLEMENT
TFM aims to avoid or reduce economic and physical displacement, 
but some displacement of local households is unavoidable as new 
surface deposits are developed in the concession. TFM has established 
policies and procedures to resettle and/or compensate Project Affected 
Persons (PAPs) who are displaced. These policies are defined in the 
Land Access, Compensation and Resettlement Policy Framework 
(LACRPF). The LACRPF, along with TFM’s other commitments to 
displaced households and communities, was developed in accordance 
with DRC law and the International Finance Corporation’s 
Performance Standard 5 (2012). 
TFM follows a multi-step participatory, transparent and equitable 
process where all Project Affected Households (PAHs) are engaged 
and fairly compensated to ensure that the living standards of displaced 
households are improved or at least restored to pre-project conditions. 
For each new phase of the mine plan that necessitates resettlement, 
TFM conducts a comprehensive socioeconomic baseline and census, 
and then prepares a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP). Each of these 
site-specific RAPs identify all economically and physically impacted 
households within a clearly identified footprint. These impacts are 
then mitigated via: (1) cash compensation, (2) replacement of assets 
and (3) restoration of livelihoods. Throughout the resettlement 
process, TFM engages with PAPs via consultation committees 
established for each resettlement community and through larger 
community meetings. These meetings provide an opportunity to 
review the resettlement process, schedule and compensation system, 
and to address any questions and issues.
The resettlement process linked to the Oxide Project was initiated 
in 2014 and continued throughout 2015, with a particular focus on 
the compensation and physical resettlement of the Bloc Mitumba 
community located near the Fungurume Hills mining area and the 
town of Fungurume. Based on the Oxide Project ESIA and following 
the guidelines outlined in TFM’s LACRPF, a site-specific RAP was 
finalized for the physical and economic displacement of Bloc Mitumba 
and the adjacent area north of the community. Physical resettlement 
began in 2014 and continued throughout 2015, with 145 households 
relocated to new housing in the New Mitumba site south of Tenke. 
Assisted self-resettlement (ASR) was introduced in 2014 for those 
entitled to resettlement housing under the Mitumba-Fungurume 
Hills RAP. ASR responded to the more urban and highly transitional 
character of the Mitumba community, and increased the range of 
choices available to eligible households. Under this option, eligible 
PAH can choose their own location for replacement housing. Of the 
180 households who selected ASR, 74 moved to privately acquired 
residences in Fungurume, Lubumbashi, Likasi and Kolwezi in 
2015. These households receive direct support throughout the ASR 
process to ensure that their houses are constructed or acquired and 
improved to an acceptable standard and with security of tenure. While 
resettlement at the New Mitumba resettlement site was completed 
in 2015, ASR will continue into 2016 for the remaining 106 PAHs. 
The Mitumba-Fungurume Hills RAP impacts a total of 1,248 PAHs, 
of which 325 are entitled resettlement housing. With an average 
household size of five, the Mitumba-Fungurume Hills RAP impacts 
approximately 6,000 individuals.  
Diversification of TFM’s livelihood restoration program was advanced 
in 2015 to respond to the more urban and highly transitional character 
of the Mitumba community, enabling PAPs to choose between 
agricultural and non-agricultural livelihood restoration packages. The 
latter consists of a “starter kit” relevant to each household’s respective 
skill set and preferred livelihood strategies, including training, cash 
grants and direct support. Depending on their skills and interests, the 
starter kits are tailored to jumpstart or enhance livelihood activities 
such as tailoring, masonry, carpentry or other locally viable businesses. 
COMMUNITIES
In partnership with the Thunderbird School of Business, Freeport-McMoRan 
sponsored Project DreamCatcher, a program designed to educate Native American 
women on business and entrepreneurial skills. The program matched each participant 
with a mentor to help provide insight on how to manage a successful business.
24 
Freeport-McMoRan
COMMUNITIES
How-to-do-business training, launched by a local NGO partner in 
2015 to support PAHs who selected the non-agricultural livelihood 
restoration packages, includes training on basic entrepreneurial skills 
such as conducting basic market surveys, drafting business plans, 
basic bookkeeping, provisioning and stock control. Upon completion 
of training and business plan approval, they are entitled to a cash 
grant for the development of their small business. Members of each 
physically impacted household under the Mitumba-Fungurume Hills 
RAP were invited to enroll in a basic skills training program. This 
12-month training includes basic numeracy and literacy training, as 
well as basic financial literacy training in household budgeting, and 
the use of bank accounts and other financial services.
Close monitoring of resettled households continues during and after 
resettlement to monitor program effectiveness and the well-being of 
resettled households, and the TFM resettlement program undergoes 
an annual third-party review. The 2015 review noted that the 
resettlement process was well managed, and was supportive of TFM’s 
efforts to diversify its livelihood restoration program. The ASR 
process was noted to be showing initial signs of success, increasing 
independence among PAHs although requiring significant staffing 
and management oversight to ensure its effectiveness. 
PUBLIC HEALTH
Malaria, HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis (TB) are serious infectious 
diseases impacting communities near our operations in Indonesia and 
the DRC, including members of our workforce. In coordination with 
local governments and NGOs, we dedicate significant resources to 
helping communities and governments reduce public health risks.
Tenke Fungurume Mining
Before TFM began project development and operations, malaria 
was by far the largest cause of morbidity in the concession area 
and placed a significant social and economic burden on the local 
population. As a result, TFM implements an integrated malaria 
control program to protect employees and the local community in 
its project area – the first of its kind in the DRC. An indoor residual 
spraying program targets households in the concession and more 
than 113,000 residential structures were sprayed during the 2014-15 
rainy season. In 2015, a total of 683 malaria cases were diagnosed 
and treated in the workforce, representing an overall reduction in 
total annual workforce malaria incidence of 51 percent since the 
start of the program in 2008.
TFM continues to invest in projects to improve health and living 
standards through improved access to clean water, sanitation and 
hygiene. TFM has drilled 123 wells including four new wells 
developed by the Social Fund in 2015 in locations along the Lukotola-
Katobangila road. The wells are managed by trained local water 
management committees that collect usage fees with the water-
generated revenue, which is used to compensate village-level repairmen 
who maintain the wells. TFM is working in collaboration with the 
National Rural Hydrology Service (SNHR), the Fungurume Health 
Zone (FHZ) and local communities to promote community self-
management of the wells. In 2015, TFM expanded water distribution 
in the two main urban areas, including five additional water stations 
in the distribution system of the fast growing town of Fungurume. 
In Tenke, the TFM Social Community Fund financed the addition 
of three new water stations to the existing network. To complement 
TFM’s clean water program and in support of the National Ministry 
of Health’s initiative for “Clean Villages and Schools,” TFM has 
supported the implementation of the “Clean Village Program” since 
2010. Through 2015, 59 concession communities have been certified 
and maintained their clean village status. 
Cholera is a constant priority health concern for TFM. During 
2015, four cases of cholera imported from outside the concession 
were reported. Working closely with the FHZ in a cholera outbreak 
preparedness effort, TFM provided cholera raid diagnostic tests and 
transported cholera treatment and prevention kits from Lubumbashi 
to Fungurume for the FHZ. No locally contracted cholera cases were 
reported from within the TFM concession in 2015, and the four 
imported cases were controlled without onward transmission. This is 
a testament to the success of local awareness and management efforts. 
Due to the high risk of cholera in the region and recurring outbreaks, 
monitoring and awareness campaigns will continue. 
As part of its Land Access, Compensation, and Resettlement Policy Framework, 
TFM compensates project-affected people to ensure their living standards are 
restored to pre-project conditions or improved. Above, a local NGO partner 
conducts basic skills training and teaches basic reading, writing and mathematical 
skills to New Mitumba residents. 
25
2015 WORKING TOWARD SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT
PT Freeport Indonesia
Papua Province, including Mimika Regency where PTFI operates, 
has the highest malaria prevalence rates in Indonesia. In virtually  
all of the local communities near our operations, malaria infection 
is the single greatest cause of morbidity and hospitalization. Coping 
with continuing rapid population and development growth is one  
of the biggest challenges affecting malaria reduction in Papua.  
Given the significant health risk to both PTFI employees and 
surrounding local communities, PTFI implements an integrated 
malaria control program.
An integrated approach on control of malaria transmission focused 
specifically in more urbanized areas of Timika is critical to the 
success of malaria reduction. In early 2013, in collaboration with the 
Amungme and Kamoro Community Development Organization 
(LPMAK) and the local government, PTFI established the Mimika 
Malaria Center under which the Timika Malaria Control Program 
(TMCP) operates. The TMCP coordinates all malaria prevention 
activities such as indoor residual spraying of insecticides in homes 
and bed net distribution among PTFI employees, families and 
local communities under coverage. The TMCP has resulted in 
significant improvements in terms of coverage, coordination, as well 
as surveillance and reporting of malaria data. The coverage of the 
residential spraying program has increased as a result of the TMCP 
expanding beyond the original coverage area. In 2015, approximately 
37,000 houses were sprayed, nearly a 28 percent increase from the 
year before. 
In 2015, approximately 6,600 community malaria cases were detected 
and treated at the three PTFI-supported community primary health 
clinics, a decrease of 68 percent from two years prior. As multi-drug 
resistance in malaria parasites is a significant problem in Papua, all 
malaria cases detected are treated with highly effective artemisinin-
combination drugs. 
ARTISANAL MINING
Artisanal and small-scale miners, many of whom operate illegally, 
have limited equipment and expertise at operating in hazardous 
conditions and can create social and environmental impacts, as 
well as placing their own health and safety at risk. We are attentive 
to concerns of stakeholders and minerals value chain participants 
regarding responsible sourcing of metals, with a focus on potential 
and actual human rights impacts associated with unregulated and 
illegal artisanal mining of minerals. We recognize that no single 
solution will entirely address this issue as long as there is cultural 
esteem associated with artisanal mining, along with unemployment, 
poverty and buyers for illegal products. However, we believe that 
a multi-pronged approach including security risk management, 
government cooperation, stakeholder engagement and socioeconomic 
development for alternative livelihoods is essential. 
PT Freeport Indonesia
PTFI uses controlled riverine tailings management to transport 
tailings and other sediments to a designated area in the lowlands 
and coastal zone, called the Modified Deposition Area (ModADA). 
Thousands of illegal artisanal miners pan for gold in the Otomona 
River system (downstream of the mill) within the project area. The 
artisanal miners include local community members, but the majority 
originate from outside the region.
A recent increase in the number of panner camps in the lowlands has 
presented challenges with levee maintenance and other earthworks 
associated with managing the engineered tailings deposition area. 
PTFI’s lowlands operations and community teams regularly coordinate 
to determine strategies for effective engagement with panners based 
on location and timing of operational plans. This coordination is 
important to help reduce the potential for pedestrian safety incidents. 
For example, dedicated pedestrian crossing areas have been installed 
along the east levee to allow for panners to safely walk from the 
deposition area to their settlements. This coordination has also helped 
address potential conflicts associated with illegal settlements and the 
footprint needed for maintenance of the lowland system. 
The potential use of mercury by illegal gold panners is a concern. 
PTFI monitors regularly for mercury use via routine environmental 
monitoring programs, and mercury has not been detected above 
natural background levels in the estuary ecosystem. PTFI also 
maintains a continuous air mercury monitoring system in the town 
of Timika. Since 2010, mercury continues to be detected at elevated 
levels in parts of the town where gold shops are present. Due to these 
monitoring systems and educational outreach, PTFI believes the risk 
of mercury use in the river system has been significantly reduced. 
Community Liaison Officers are routinely in the field to socialize the 
health and safety risks of artisanal gold panning.
COMMUNITIES
PTFI services indigenous coastal communities east of its project area with a 
floating medical clinic. The service has been implemented in part due to tailings 
sedimentation impeding areas of lateral water access to the town of Timika. 
26 
Freeport-McMoRan
COMMUNITIES
Aerial view of dam terraces and panning camps in the highland portion of the PTFI 
project area.
PTFI continued to work with a third party in 2015 to support 
stakeholder engagement efforts with illegal gold panners. This 
organization has conducted an update to the 2012 baseline survey  
on panning activity in both the highland and lowland areas. Given 
the sensitivity of illegal artisanal mining under Indonesian law and 
the associated risks, PTFI recognizes the importance of a neutral 
third party in helping to establish better information gathering and 
two-way communication.
In 2015, PTFI’s Government Relations Department led coordination 
on illegal panning with the local government (Provincial and 
Regency) and host-government security apparatus through a multi-
stakeholder forum called Forum Komunikasi Bersama (FKB). This 
coordination started after the fatal security incident in Utikini Lama 
area in January 2015 (see incident description in our Voluntary 
Principles on Security and Human Rights 2015 Report to the 
Plenary on our website). FKB is tasked to address artisanal mining 
from the perspective of Indonesian regulation, safety and security 
and potential alternative livelihood programs for the panners. PTFI 
is also working with the local government and relevant institutions to 
find alternative livelihoods. For local community members, village-
based economic development programs, including coffee and cocoa 
cooperatives, are current opportunities.
Tenke Fungurume Mining
Artisanal mining is widespread throughout the mining regions of the 
DRC and is legal, except in private, industrial mining concessions such 
as TFM’s where the activity is illegal under DRC law. Illegal mining 
in the TFM concession remains a significant security risk – in part 
due to the high quality of ore, the proximity of the working areas to 
nearby populations and the lack of alternate economic activity. Some 
studies also indicate that, in many cases, illegal mining activities are 
culturally part of passage to manhood. In addition to our established 
security measures, we are addressing the issue through a combination 
of ongoing training on the Voluntary Principles, engagement with 
the local community security council and investment in economic 
development programs to promote long-term growth and alternative 
livelihoods in the community.
The greatest risks arising from illegal artisanal mining remain the 
safety and security of our employees, the local population and law 
enforcement officials. Artisanal miners do not use protective gear and 
either enter active TFM mine pits, stockpiles and waste dumps, or 
dig underground adits and tunnels to access ore deposits in non-active 
areas of the concession. Illegal miners typically enter mining areas in 
large clusters of approximately 200 to 300 individuals, and work in 
groups of approximately 15 to 20 individuals. 
Working conditions in artisanal mining areas are treacherous, and  
the risk of landslides, collapse and the burial of miners are particularly 
high during the rainy season. In 2015, 10 illegal miners were killed in 
four incidents of tunnel collapses or geotechnical instabilities. TFM 
suspects that there could be more cases of illegal artisanal miner 
fatalities, but they are not reported to TFM or the local authorities  
due to the illegal nature of the activity and fear of arrest or closure of 
access to open deposits and tunnels. In active mining areas, the risks 
to illegal miners include injury or death from blasting, being struck by 
heavy equipment or buried in their tunnels during mine development 
and operations. 
TFM continued its partnership with nonprofit organization Search 
for Common Ground in 2015 to address conflict drivers in the local 
community, including illegal mining, through a communications 
and engagement program. Through this partnership, participatory 
theater was used to promote dialogue on issues related to illegal 
mining and targeted over 5,000 people with 20 performances in 
villages throughout the concession. These performances helped 
build understanding of the negative impacts of illegal mining on the 
community, such as increased violence, and encouraged community 
members to develop solutions to underlying issues, such as limited 
opportunities for youths.
The company continues to engage with the DRC authorities to operate 
control measures at the entry and exit points of the concession to 
interdict shipments of illegal ore, and to implement mobile security 
monitoring. TFM Community Liaison Officers conduct awareness 
campaigns to educate the community about the risks associated with 
artisanal mining activity. TFM’s long-term strategy continues to be 
support for economic development and job creation in the region to 
provide communities with other opportunities for income generation, 
though the effectiveness of these programs is constrained by high levels 
of population influx. 
27
2015 WORKING TOWARD SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT
T
he Freeport-McMoRan Environmental Policy is based on our 
objective to be compliant with laws and regulations and to 
minimize environmental impacts using risk management strategies 
based on valid data and sound science. It requires that we review and 
take account of the environmental effects of each activity, whether 
exploration, mining or processing; and that we plan and conduct 
the design, development, operation and closure of each facility in a 
manner that optimizes the economic use of resources while reducing 
adverse environmental effects.
All of our mining and mineral processing operations maintain 
Environmental Management Systems (EMS) certified to ISO 14001, 
which are independently audited on an annual basis. As part of the 
EMS, upon employment all newly-hired employees and contractors 
are trained on environmental awareness in subject areas including 
chemical management, waste management, and spill prevention and 
response. In addition to job-specific training, workforce members 
receive annual environmental refresher training. During 2015, we 
completed internal environmental audits at 12 operations, and our 
facilities are routinely inspected by regulatory agencies. Since 1996, an 
independent environmental audit has been conducted at PTFI every 
three years, and an executive summary and responses to the 2014 
audit recommendations are posted on our website. All operations have 
corrective action programs associated with the overarching EMS.
When operations have received a notice of an environmental violation 
from a regulatory agency such as shown in the table below, the 
citations typically have involved brief and minor exceedances of 
permit conditions or other recordkeeping violations which have no 
or minimal environmental impact. Notices of violation have also 
followed spills or releases related to tailings dust or impacted water. 
Where our operations have been assessed for penalties, they typically 
are individually below $100,000.
ENERGY MANAGEMENT
Our copper mining operations require significant energy inputs, 
principally diesel, purchased power, coal and natural gas, most of 
which is obtained from third parties under long-term contracts. 
Energy represented approximately 17 percent of our consolidated 
copper production costs during 2015. 
Our worldwide total greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, measured  
as carbon dioxide equivalent emissions, were approximately  
10.6 million metric tons divided between direct (57 percent) and 
indirect (43 percent) emissions for 2015. The increase from 2014  
was attributable to the completion of the Cerro Verde expansion 
project, an increase in production at PTFI, the new Morenci  
mill operating for a full year and the new mill coming online at 
Cerro Verde in the fourth quarter. Indirect emissions are primarily 
those emitted by our electricity providers. In 2015, approximately 
67 percent of our purchased power was from low carbon sources, 
including natural gas and renewable energy.
* Penalties are typically paid in periods subsequent to the year of the environmental event and/or enforcement action.
	
2011	
2012	
2013	
2014	
2015
Reportable spills or releases of hazardous or toxic chemicals	
11	
12	
16	
14	
13
Notices of Violations related to permit exceedances, spills,   
releases or other compliance matters	
6	
4	
10	
11	
2
Environmental Penalties*	
$75,000	
$47,369	
$80,362	
$123,745	
$43,000
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE INDICATORS
The gravitational potential energy associated with the 470-meter decent of  
El Abra’s overland ore conveyor is greater than the power required to power  
the conveyor itself. As a result, during its braking, five megawatts of electricity is 
produced and used in operations.
ENVIRONMENT
28 
Freeport-McMoRan
Our direct emissions are primarily from fuel combustion in haul 
trucks, followed by the combustion of fuels to provide energy 
for roasting, smelting and other processes. The majority of our 
mining activity occurs in open pits. As an open pit matures, haul 
road length increases and haul trucks are required to move ore 
additional distances to the processing facility. While the amount 
of waste material moved fluctuates year to year, the haul distances 
also increase. When market conditions necessitate the mining and 
processing of lower grade ore, haul trucks must move more material 
per pound of processed metal. 
Crushing, milling, pumping and electrowinning are the most 
significant power-consuming processes at our facilities. We have 
achieved significant improvements in energy efficiency with our 
new processing facilities, including new mills at Morenci and Cerro 
Verde. The Cerro Verde concentrator expansion, for example, includes 
a High Pressure Grinding Roll circuit that is approximately 40 
percent more energy efficient than a traditional Semi-Autogenous 
Grinding mill circuit. TFM also is utilizing 14 megawatts of 
electricity produced from cogeneration at its two acid plants and is 
completing refurbishment of four hydropower turbines in the region. 
We continue to invest annually in energy-related research and 
development through our technology center, technical services and 
operational improvement groups. We participate in utility demand 
side efficiency programs and support renewable energy standards 
when feasible, such as providing mining-related property for solar 
power generation. 
Our mining operations are currently not located in jurisdictions 
where there is a direct cost associated with our GHG emissions. As 
countries implement programs to meet objectives stemming from 
the COP 21 agreement, from a medium to long-term perspective we 
may experience increased costs relating to changes in energy sources 
for, and GHG emissions from, our mining operations. In addition, 
the cost of electricity and other inputs that we purchase may increase 
if our suppliers incur increased costs from the regulation of their 
GHG emissions. We have modeled a hypothetical carbon tax of $50 
per metric ton on our GHG emissions (Scope I and II) associated 
with our global copper mines. The associated hypothetical increase 
in operating costs would not necessitate operating plan changes as 
it is similar to possible fluctuations in mined ore grades. Applying 
this model to our forecasted emissions profile and five-year copper 
production plans does not alter our current operating plans.
We have received independent verification of our GHG emissions inventory for years 
2007-2015. 
The Cerro Verde concentrator expansion includes a High Pressure Grinding Roll 
circuit that is approximately 40 percent more energy efficient than a traditional  
Semi-Autogenous Grinding mill circuit. The project tripled the concentrator facilities 
from 120,000 metric tons of ore per day to 360,000 metric tons of ore per day.
a. Associated with the self-generating coal-fired power facility at PTFI.
b. 
Emissions from non-energy consumption processes including leaching of  
calcite-containing ore, lime manufacturing, iron removal and refrigerants.
ENVIRONMENT
2015 TOTAL (SCOPE I AND II) CARBON DIOXIDE 
EQUIVALENT EMISSIONS
By Region
	 46%	
North America
	 32%	
Indonesia
	 17%	
South America
	
3%	
Africa
	
2%	
Europe
2015 DIRECT (SCOPE I) CARBON DIOXIDE 
EQUIVALENT EMISSIONS
By Fuel Type
	 56%	
Liquid Fuels
	 33%	
Coala
	
6%	
Otherb
	
5%	
Gas Fuels
29
2015 WORKING TOWARD SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT
WATER SUPPLY AND MANAGEMENT
We recognize the importance of responsibly managing water 
resources across the portfolio of mining operations in both arid and 
wet regions. Our mining operations require significant quantities of 
water for mining and ore processing, and most of our operations in 
North and South America are in arid regions. 
We used approximately 1,460 million cubic meters of water in our 
operating processes in 2015, of which approximately 80 percent 
was recycled water. The majority of our recycled water originates 
from reclaimed water capture at tailings storage facilities and leach 
pads. Mining operations in arid regions use operational-based 
water models to understand water use, recycling opportunities and 
operational losses such as evaporation. Through this process we have 
identified additional operational practices where recycled water is 
being used that was not quantified in prior reporting, which in turn 
has contributed to the overall increase in percentage of total recycled 
water use. 
The company maintains a global water management program 
designed to (1) support metal production by supplying required 
water to process operations; (2) minimize water supply and water 
storage risks associated with operational, climatic, social, regulatory 
and environmental conditions; (3) minimize costs associated with 
the acquisition and distribution of water; (4) promote innovation 
and implement technology for efficient water usage. Operational 
water teams, who are supported by corporate technical experts, 
work toward completing operation specific goals by identifying 
and managing resources; communicating and coordinating with 
key stakeholders; monitoring, managing and analyzing water data; 
reporting and accounting for water use and consumption; and 
developing forecasting tools to support future conditions and closure. 
Although the potential physical impacts of climate change on our 
operations are highly uncertain, operations in arid regions also 
conduct annual scenario planning to evaluate hypothetical reductions 
in total water availability and hypothetical extreme precipitation 
events. Our water management includes identifying actions to help us 
adapt our operations to possible water shortages or surpluses.
In Peru and Chile, communities have protested mining projects 
because of concerns about competition for scarce water resources. 
With local support, we are pleased to now have achieved full  
capacity operating rates at the major expansion of our Cerro Verde 
copper mining operation near Arequipa – Peru’s second largest city. 
With a lack of adequate wastewater treatment infrastructure in the 
city, Cerro Verde financed the design and construction of one of  
the most advanced wastewater collection system and treatment  
plants (WWTP) in the country through a public/private  
partnership. The WWTP is designed to treat approximately  
90 percent of Arequipa’s domestic sewage and industrial discharges 
that previously reported directly into the Rio Chili. Cerro Verde will 
now use an annual average of 1 cubic meter per second of the treated 
wastewater from the WWTP to support additional ore processing. 
During 2015, the company continued to store renewable surface 
water supplies at underground recharge facilities within Arizona for 
future use in support of existing mine operations, drought backup 
or to support future mine expansions. The company also entered 
into an agreement with farmers in southern Arizona to build a 
pipeline to bring renewable Colorado River water to farm fields 
reducing the farmer’s dependence on groundwater while at the same 
time providing the company with future renewable water supply 
credits. Additionally, the company, in conjunction with the Bureau 
of Reclamation, is nearing completion of an environmental study 
that will allow the company’s Miami operation to carry out a water 
exchange in 2017 resulting in the operation’s utilization of renewable 
water supplies.
The newly commissioned wastewater treatment plant for the City of Arequipa 
supplements existing water supplies to support Cerro Verde’s expansion. As a result, 
regional water quality is improving. 
ENVIRONMENT
2015 WATER USE BY SOURCE
1,460 Million Cubic Meters
	 80%	
Recycled Water
	 16%	
Surface/Ground Water
	
4%	
Storm Water
30 
Freeport-McMoRan
TAILINGS AND WASTE ROCK
The waste rock (including overburden) and tailings that we produce 
represent our largest volume of waste. Managing the volume of 
waste rock and tailings produced in our mining operations presents 
significant environmental, safety and engineering challenges. In 
2015, we produced approximately 349 million and 215 million 
metric tons of waste rock and tailings, respectively. The primary risks 
associated with managing waste rock stockpiles and tailings relate to 
structural stability, geochemistry, water quality and dust generation. 
Management of this waste is regulated in the jurisdictions where 
we operate, and our programs are designed to be in compliance 
with applicable national, state and local laws, permits and approved 
Environmental Impact Studies.  
The tailings storage facility (TSF) failure at the Imperial Metals-
owned Mount Polley Mine in British Columbia on August 4, 2014, 
and the Samarco Mineração S.A.-owned TSF failure in Minas 
Gerais, Brazil, on November 5, 2015, were among the largest 
unplanned discharges of tailings in history, with significant loss 
of life, environmental impacts and social license impacts. The 
failures led to multiple investigation reports, regulatory updates, 
and professional organizations’ guideline updates. Our internal 
tailings experts reviewed available documents, confirming that  
our processes and systems are aligned with relevant publicly  
available recommendations. The independent investigation  
report for the Samarco failure, the ICMM Tailings Storage  
Facility Review report (which considers the ICMM Health and  
Safety Critical Control Management guide) and other documents  
are pending. 
Freeport-McMoRan’s objective is to have zero structural failures of 
TSFs. We have an active tailings management program designed to 
advance continual improvement and assessment, currently operating 
19 TSFs and managing 52 TSFs that are inactive or have been fully 
reclaimed. At our Cerro Verde operation in Peru, we completed 
construction and commissioning of the Linga TSF starter dam, with 
a targeted capacity of approximately 2 billion metric tons of tailings 
material. We also commissioned the Morenci, Arizona starter dam, 
increasing tailings capacity by approximately 568 million metric tons. 
At the operational level, TSF stability is managed by qualified internal 
engineers, with design, analyses and review by qualified external 
Engineer(s) of Record (EoRs). We follow established operations, 
maintenance and communication protocols. We also regularly inspect 
and monitor phreatic level trends, deposition plans and adherence to 
good operational construction practices, water management controls, 
seepage management, decant systems and other stability components. 
In addition, we periodically review as-built in situ conditions through 
field and laboratory geotechnical testing programs.
At the corporate level, TSF stability is managed through our Tailings 
Stewardship Program, which includes a multi-disciplinary group of 
internal and external experts, and the Tailings Stewardship Team 
(TST), which evaluates the design, operation and maintenance of 
TSFs to ensure that we follow good stewardship practices. In 2015, our 
TST conducted annual field inspections at 16 active and 37 inactive 
TSFs. We also seek the advice of Technical Review Boards, which 
are comprised of internationally recognized experts retained by us, 
regarding our EoRs’ design and analysis, as well as our management 
of dam stability to ensure alignment with industry good practices. As 
of December 2015, we have Technical Review Boards established to 
review TSFs at five operations, with four more planned for 2016  
and 2017.
Freeport-McMoRan has a critical controls management system in 
place. Focus areas progressing in 2016 include: 
Governance systems
•	 Formalized Terms of Reference for our internal 
and external engineers, and external engineering 
inspectors/reviewers 
•	 Formalized responsibility assignment for tailings 
operations and assurance
•	 Strong internal accountability for resolving  
inspection/review recommendations 
•	 Technical support to site-based engineers from 
Corporate Technical Services’ Tailings & Water Group
•	 Integrated life-cycle planning and management of 
tailings and water
The new Linga TSF (above) and existing Enlozada TSF at Cerro are two of the largest 
TSFs in the global mining sector. Both were designed and built to withstand up to a 
9.0 magnitude earthquake and withstand a Probable Maximum Flood.
ENVIRONMENT
31
2015 WORKING TOWARD SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT
Operations and surveillance systems 
•	 Monitoring and Action Plans with automated 
monitoring instrumentation
•	 Training for engineers, superintendents, supervisors 
and operators
•	 Standardized water and tailings accounting and 
reconciliation
•	 TSF Emergency Action Plan integration with  
site-wide Crisis Management Plans
Operational critical control examples
•	 Flood management requirements such as beach  
offset (freeboard)
•	 Instrument thresholds compared to actual 
measurements for acceptable factors of safety for static 
drained, undrained and post-earthquake conditions
•	 Mitigation measures, if needed, at any TSF may 
include enhanced drainage, buttress or increased  
water consumption
At TSFs located in arid regions, our tailings management program 
includes measures to reduce fugitive dust emissions from the surface  
of tailings impoundments, and increase reclaimed water capture to 
reduce freshwater consumption. Our efforts to limit dust generation 
include the application of magnesium chloride, polymers, watering  
and wind fencing.
PTFI’s controlled riverine tailings management system, which has 
been approved by the Indonesian government, uses the unnavigable 
river system in the mountainous highlands near our mine to transport 
tailings to an engineered area in the lowlands where the tailings 
and other sediments are managed in a deposition area referred to as 
the ModADA. Levees have been constructed to laterally contain 
the footprint of the tailings and to limit their area of impact in the 
lowlands. The ModADA Management Board (MMB) is a multi-
disciplinary expert panel that meets on site approximately twice each 
year to assess performance and risks associated with the ModADA 
and coastal zone area. The MMB focuses on the structural integrity 
of the levees and the geochemical stability of the deposition area, as 
well as associated stakeholder engagement. PTFI also hosts a Tailings 
Management Communication Forum, comprised of government 
stakeholders, academia and NGOs, which convenes periodically 
to discuss various aspects of PTFI’s controlled riverine tailings 
management system and associated opportunities, including tailings 
utilization programs.
Waste rock and overburden are managed in stockpiles for possible 
future mineral recovery, reclamation or other projects. These stockpiles 
are regularly monitored and evaluated for structural stability in 
accordance with local seismic design criteria. At PTFI, overburden 
stockpiles are subject to erosion caused by the large amounts of rainfall 
in the region (average annual rainfall is 200 inches). The eroded 
stockpile material is eventually deposited in the tailings management 
area in the lowlands. This additional material, while predicted in our 
environmental studies, influences both the amounts and timing of 
deposition of finer tailings material in the estuary.
BIODIVERSITY 
We are committed to identifying the impacts of our operations and, 
where practicable, implementing actions that conserve and enhance 
biodiversity. All operating mines have developed biodiversity 
management plans and Land Management Plans (LMPs), with the 
assistance of our corporate Biodiversity Task Force. Biodiversity 
management plans identify potential biodiversity projects through a 
process that includes landscape-scale habitat inventory, assessment 
of biodiversity risks (linked with the operation’s Environmental 
Management System and Sustainable Development Risk Register 
process), identification of biodiversity opportunities and prioritization 
of projects. The plans generally consist of voluntary projects conducted 
in partnership with stakeholder groups, including government 
agencies, academic institutions and NGOs. LMPs provide the 
mechanism through which biodiversity considerations are incorporated 
into the site-specific planning process to minimize adverse impacts 
to biodiversity where practicable. LMPs consist of data overlays that 
illustrate the location and extent of significant biodiversity resources 
within and adjacent to mine sites.
ENVIRONMENT
Due to large amounts of local rainfall, PTFI maintains a comprehensive program to 
minimize erosion from the Wanagon Stockpile (shown above). Material eroded from 
the stockpile reports to the lowland tailings management area and, while predicted  
in environmental studies, can accelerate the deposition of finer tailings material in  
the estuary.
32 
Freeport-McMoRan
As of December 2015, 12 Freeport-McMoRan sites were certified 
by the Wildlife Habitat Council’s (WHC) Wildlife at Work program, 
which recognizes activities that create, conserve and restore wildlife 
habitat on corporate lands. Seven sites are certified by the WHC 
Corporate Lands for Learning program, which provides recognition to 
sites that promote environmental education and outreach initiatives in 
local communities. 
WHC and Bat Conservation International honored Morenci with 
the Bat Conservation Action award in 2015, which recognizes 
programs that actively promote bat habitat through enhancement and 
management activities. Morenci received the award for several key 
bat conservation and environmental education activities, including 
protecting significant maternity colonies that inhabit caves near the 
site. Since installing a bat-compatible gate at the Eagle Creek Bat 
Cave in 2010, annual population monitoring has indicated a positive 
trend for multiple consecutive years with an estimated 2 million bats 
using the cave in 2015. Morenci has also educated the public about the 
importance of bats in the ecosystem, and partnered with local schools 
to develop student curriculum centered on bats.
Our commitment to environmental education extends beyond bats. 
Safford’s community development department maintains its productive 
partnership with Wild at Heart, an Arizona-based nonprofit dedicated 
to wildlife conservation. In 2015, Safford staff led and implemented a 
Burrowing Owl environmental education event that reached over 400 
students from local schools. Students cycled through various stations 
and conducted hands-on activities relating to different aspects of owl 
biology and conservation. 
Numerous sites have continued to utilize pollinator gardens to 
promote pollinator conservation as well as provide communities 
with opportunities for STEM education. Examples include 
organizing Earth Day, STEM Fest and youth engagement events 
where students take part in various activities focused on pollinator 
conservation. Miami was shortlisted as a finalist for the WHC/
Pollinator Partnership’s Pollinator Advocate Award for its successful 
implementation of pollinator habitat areas and public education efforts. 
PTFI maintains a successful program to release endangered butterflies 
(pollinators) into habitats within its project area.
Sites across our portfolio continued to implement programs to conserve 
imperiled species that occur within or adjacent to our properties. 
Safford is collaborating with the Gila Watershed Partnership to restore 
native riparian habitats on company lands along the Gila River, which 
will ultimately benefit the endangered southwestern willow flycatcher. 
Tyrone and Morenci have management plans that benefit endangered 
native fish, and Miami is conducting activities to benefit the yellow-
billed cuckoo and southwestern willow flycatcher. Internationally, 
Cerro Verde is conducting programs to protect Peruvian endangered 
species that occur on the site, including the guanaco and Peruvian  
long-snouted bat, and El Abra is implementing management programs 
at the Salar de Ascotán to conserve vegetative species. 
We continue to work with industry groups and closely monitor 
developing concepts, including no net loss, net positive impacts and 
ecosystem services. In 2015, we participated in Business for Social 
Responsibility workshops and initiatives related to ecosystem services 
assessment tools and, along with several other large multinational 
corporations, worked to address definitions, indicators and 
disclosures used to define and understand ecosystem service risks 
and opportunities. We also participate in the ICMM Biodiversity 
Working Group, as well as the Cross Sector Biodiversity Initiative, 
a collaboration between ICMM, IPECA and the Equator Bank 
Association. As this field evolves, we will continue to enhance 
communications on our biodiversity systems and initiatives.
ENVIRONMENT
As part of its Corporate Lands for Learning program and support for STEM 
education, Cerro Verde hosts regional students at its plant nursery to learn about 
native desert flora.
33
2015 WORKING TOWARD SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT
Since 2011, Freeport-McMoRan employees have participated in the company’s annual biodiversity photo contest. Each year 
approximately 400 photos are submitted by employees, and the contest successfully engages our workforce on biodiversity 
appreciation and to promote habitats at our worldwide operations. Winning photos from the popular contest are showcased 
within the Wildlife Habitat Council’s Corporate Homes for Wildlife calendar, which is distributed internationally. The 
calendar showcases efforts by member companies to enhance and conserve wildlife habitat on corporate lands. Winning photos 
selected by the company’s Biodiversity Task Force are presented below.
2015 WINNING 
BIODIVERSITY 
PHOTOS
A pair of Burrowing Owls near the 
Freeport-McMoRan Technology 
Center in Tucson, Arizona
A group of Rocky Mountain Elk near 
the Henderson mine 
California Poppies 
 
near the Safford mine
ENVIRONMENT
34 
Freeport-McMoRan
TREND DATA
2011
2012
      2013
      2014
      2015
Workforcea
Employees 
31,800
34,000
36,100
35,000
34,500
Contractors 
27,800
27,100
38,400
46,300
37,500
Percent Employees Under Collective Bargaining Agreements
49%
48%
49%
48%
48%
Safety & Healtha
Fatalities 
5
6
35
7
3
Total Recordable Incident Rateb
0.61
0.58
0.74
0.56
0.56
Occupational Illness Cases
16
25
41
46
43
Environment
Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions (million metric tons)
5.4
5.7
5.9
5.2
6.0
Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions (million metric tons)
4.6
4.0
4.3
4.3
4.6
Total Water Consumptionc (million cubic meters)
600 
665 
690 
1,325
1,460
Percent Recycled Waterc
66%
71% 
69% 
79%
80%
Reportable spills or releases of hazardous or toxic chemicals
11
12
16
14
13
Notices of Violations related to permit exceedances, spills,  
releases or other compliance matters
6
4
10
11
2
Environmental Penaltiesd ($ thousands)
$       75
$       47
$      80
$      124
$      43
Social
Community Investments ($ millions)
$      191 
$      173
$     173
$      198
$      165
Cash Payments to Governmentsa,e ($ millions)
$ 4,838
$  2,984
$  2,814
$   3,355
$   1,993
Direct Economic Contributionsa,e ($ millions)
$16,559
$14,470
$17,283
$17,030
$14,475
a. Includes FM O&G beginning June 1, 2013
b. TRIR = [(Fatalities + Lost Time Incidents + Restricted Duty Incidents + Medical Treatment) x 200,000] / Total Hours Worked
c. Excludes all facilities located in Arizona for years 2011-2013 due to water rights litigation
d. Penalties are typically paid in periods subsequent to the year of the environmental event and/or enforcement action
e. Please see detailed information in our WTSD reports published on fcx.com/sd
TREND DATA
35
2015 WORKING TOWARD SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT
