Amid the country's dearth of smelters to drive the downstream aluminum sector, Adaro Minerals is aiming to start producing 250,000 tonnes of aluminum ingots by the third quarter and eventually increase to full production by early 2026 at its smelter in KIPI, operated by subsidiary Kalimantan Aluminium Industry. AUS$2 billion aluminum smelter built in Kalimantan Industrial Park Indonesia (KIPI) by PT Adaro Minerals, PT Adaro Energy’s coking coal subsidiary, is scheduled to be fully operational by the first quarter of 2026. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. Amid the country's dearth of smelters to drive the downstream aluminum sector, Adaro Minerals is aiming to start producing 250,000 tonnes of aluminum ingots by the third quarter and eventually increase to full production by early 2026 at its smelter in KIPI, operated by subsidiary Kalimantan Aluminium Industry. US$2 billion aluminum smelter built in Kalimantan Industrial Park Indonesia (KIPI) by PT Adaro Minerals, PT Adaro Energy’s coking coal subsidiary, is scheduled to be fully operational by the first quarter of 2026. Wito Krisnahadi, director of Adaro Minerals’ subsidiary Kalimantan Aluminium Industry, said the company planned to sell the smelter’s aluminum ingots to both domestic and export markets, as local demand was “not that much” and unable to absorb 100 percent of the output. “Traders are interested in absorbing all of the output, but we are still [considering] that, because the government wants a portion of the output to help reduce aluminum imports,” Wito told a media gathering on Wednesday in Jakarta. He added that by the third quarter of this year, he expected the aluminum smelter to be producing 250,000 tonnes of ingots, half of its installed capacity of 500,000 tonnes. Read also: Adaro unit plans $1.1 billion capex, mostly for smelter According to Wito, the ingots were part of the government’s plan to develop the downstream aluminum industry, as they could be used to make value-added products like billets, rods and automotive appliances, as well as in food packaging. For now, Adaro Minerals was focusing on ensuring that a reliable 24-7 electricity supply was available to operate the smelter in Bulungan, North Kalimantan. © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Or continue login with Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.