The Indonesian Coal and Mineral Energy Suppliers Association (Aspebindo) has said the extension of PT Freeport Indonesia’s (PTFI) copper ore export permit is a setback for downstream industry development. The government’s plan to extend PT Freeport Indonesia’s (PTFI) copper ore export permit sends the wrong signal to the company and is a setback for downstream industry development, says the Indonesian Coal and Mineral Energy Suppliers Association (Aspebindo). Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. The Indonesian Coal and Mineral Energy Suppliers Association (Aspebindo) has said the extension of PT Freeport Indonesia’s (PTFI) copper ore export permit is a setback for downstream industry development. he government’s plan to extend PT Freeport Indonesia’s (PTFI) copper ore export permit sends the wrong signal to the company and is a setback for downstream industry development, says the Indonesian Coal and Mineral Energy Suppliers Association (Aspebindo). The association has asked the government to be more assertive in implementing regulations to increase the value of natural resources, including enforcing a ban on raw mineral exports. Aspebindo vice chairman Fathul Nugroho said the extension could lead to a “loss of opportunities for Indonesia to obtain greater economic benefits from these minerals, and also reduces incentives to develop downstream industries that are more environmentally friendly and high-value.” Read also: Govt plan to increase Freeport stake ‘unnecessary’, expert says The 2020 Mining Law mandates a ban on unprocessed copper exports starting in June 2023, following a similar policy on nickel and bauxite ores, materials that are required in domestic smelters. The nickel ore export ban implemented in 2020 has attracted huge investment into ore processing, much of it from China. Many Chinese companies have invested in refining facilities that process materials extracted from nickel ore to be used in electric vehicle (EV) batteries. © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Or continue login with Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.