Videos showing an anoa strolling around a mining site made rounds on social media, raising concerns over the harmful impact of mining activities to the midget buffalo’s population and natural habitat. The Northeast Sulawesi Natural Resource Conservation Agency (BKSDA) plans to evacuate critically endangered anoas from a mining concession owned by PT Sulawesi Cahaya Mineral (SCM) in Konawe, Northeast Sulawesi, to prevent a population decline. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. Videos showing an anoa strolling around a mining site made rounds on social media, raising concerns over the harmful impact of mining activities to the midget buffalo’s population and natural habitat. he Northeast Sulawesi Natural Resource Conservation Agency (BKSDA) plans to evacuate critically endangered anoas from a mining concession owned by PT Sulawesi Cahaya Mineral (SCM) in Konawe, Northeast Sulawesi, to prevent a population decline. The anoa, also known as the midget buffalo, is endemic to Sulawesi and has been on the International Union for Conservation of Nature’s (IUCN) red list of endangered species since 1986. On Thursday, an anoa was spotted in a nickel mining concession of SCM. Videos showing the anoa strolling around the site made the rounds on social media, raising concerns over the harmful impact of mining activities on the midget buffalo’s population and natural habitat. Apparently, it was not the first time an anoa had been spotted in the nickel mine. Last month, two anoas were also found crossing the mining concession. Northeast Sulawesi BKSDA chairman Sakrianto Djawie said the three anoas seemed to cross the specific site regularly, but it was estimated that a total of 15 anoas were living in the 3,800-hectare mining concession. "We will evacuate the anoas to protect the animal from extinction," he said on Saturday as reported by Antara news. Read also: Rare Javan rhino calf spotted in Ujung Kulon Sakrianto assured that the conservation agency had cooperated with SCM to evacuate the anoas to a conservation area owned by the mining company. The government mandates all mining companies to provide an animal conservation area before they can acquire forest area utilization permits (IPPKH) for mining. SCM has agreed to provide 422 ha of land for the anoas conservation, far away from the company’s mining activities. The company has also issued a regulation banning all employees from harming the endangered animals and said it would immediately fire anyone who violated the rule. (nal) © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.