While the government's export ban aims to spur smelter investments, industry representatives warn it could cause hundreds of layoffs in the bauxite sector. After the government enforced a ban on bauxite exports on Saturday, mining firms are calling for a remedy from the government to alleviate the ban’s impact, warning that output cuts could see hundreds of miners losing their jobs. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. While the government's export ban aims to spur smelter investments, industry representatives warn it could cause hundreds of layoffs in the bauxite sector. fter the government enforced a ban on bauxite exports on Saturday, mining firms are calling for a remedy from the government to alleviate the ban’s impact, warning that output cuts could see hundreds of miners losing their jobs. Producers say imposing a price floor to control how much smelters must pay for bauxite, as well as a push for local banks to provide more funding for smelter development, could lessen their pain. For months, industry players have been pointing to a mismatch between national bauxite output and existing smelters’ input capacity, and that at current production levels, banning exports would result in around 17 million tonnes of unprocessed bauxite. The government acknowledges the issue, with Irwandy Arif, special advisor to the energy and mineral resources minister, saying that domestic bauxite production could reach 31 million tonnes this year against the existing smelter capacity of only 14 million tonnes. This would not result in a stockpile of surplus bauxite, however, as miners could curb production. Furthermore, the existing smelters were not running at full capacity, he said. "Those miners can still sell [more] bauxite when the operating smelters increase their capacity [utilization]," Irwandy said on Monday. The ministerial aide expressed his hope that the eight companies currently building smelters would make “good progress” in narrowing the difference between bauxite miners’ output and smelters’ input. © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Or continue login with Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.