In a market of falling prices, Indonesia's largest coal mining company expects to reach almost half of its full-year output target by the end of June and sees further growth ahead. PT Bumi Resources (BUMI), Indonesia's largest thermal coal miner, expects to close the first half of this year with coal sales of 42 million tons, or 47 percent of its full-year target of 88-90 million tons. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. In a market of falling prices, Indonesia's largest coal mining company expects to reach almost half of its full-year output target by the end of June and sees further growth ahead. T Bumi Resources (BUMI), Indonesia's largest thermal coal miner, expects to close the first half of this year with coal sales of 42 million tons, or 47 percent of its full-year target of 88-90 million tons. BUMI corporate secretary Dileep Srivastava said on Tuesday that the firm had sold 20 million tons of coal in the first quarter and was hopeful about achieving 22 million tons in the second quarter. “Our second-quarter coal sales are 10 percent better than the first quarter, and we will have to sell another 45-48 million tons of coal in the second semester,” he told press after the annual shareholders meeting. Dileep added that the firm’s growth was supported by steady production at its two coal miners, namely PT Kaltim Prima Coal (KPC) and PT Arutmin Indonesia. The company expects to close this year with gross revenue at US$5 billion, up $100 million from last year’s $4.9 billion, despite the downward trend in coal prices. According to the Energy and Mineral Resources Ministry, that downtrend began in October, when the coal price fell to $100.89 per ton. It declined further to $97.90 in November and $92.50 in December. The trend continued this year, with the price dropping further in January, February, March and April to $92.41, $91.8, $90.57 and $88.85 per ton, respectively, before ending up much lower at $81.48 per ton in June. “[In reaching our goals] we have already secured buyers for 85 percent of our coal production. Hence, we don’t have much doubt or see much risk in achieving our goals,” he said. As of the first quarter of 2019, BUMI’s net profit dropped 46.27 percent year-on-year to $48.44 million, but that was much better than the previous quarter, when the firm only booked $15.1 million. Despite a negative impact from the ongoing US-China trade war and the coal price cap for state-owned electricity firm PLN in the domestic market, Dileep was upbeat about the company’s prospects to raise coal output by 5-10 percent next year. “Next year, there will hopefully be no coal price cap [at $70 dollars per ton] and the trade war impact could be mitigated. If those two things happen, I think we could have a 5-10 percent increase [in output] next year.” he said. © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.