Indonesia's largest thermal coal mining company, PT Bumi Resources, has announced that its planned rights issue will take place from May 26 to June 8. The move is part of the company’s efforts to restructure commercial debt amounting to US$4.2 billion. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. ndonesia's largest thermal coal mining company, PT Bumi Resources, has announced that its planned rights issue will take place from May 26 to June 8. The move is part of the company’s efforts to restructure commercial debt amounting to US$4.2 billion. Bumi will issue 28.75 billion pre-emptive rights to subscribe securities (HMETD), each with a nominal value of Rp 100 (1 US cent). Those pre-emptive rights are expected to be listed in the bourse on June 12. The politically-wired Bakrie family's company will also issue 9.13 billion mandatory convertible bonds (MCB) with an annual coupon rate of 6 percent and a maturity period of seven years. (Read also: Bumi Resources expects higher coal sales in 2017) “The reference price for equity and MCB is reconfirmed at Rp 926.16 per share,” Bumi director and corporate secretary Dileep Srivastava told The Jakarta Post on Monday. With that reference price, Bumi expects to collect a total of Rp 26.6 trillion from the rights issue and Rp 8.45 trillion from the MCB. In addition to the rights issue, Bumi also plans to issue tradable contingent value rights (CVR) worth $100 million for creditors of its new senior secured bond. The CVR will be due in five years. The company aims to replace its debts from China Development Bank (CDB) with a new senior secured bond or a tranche C facility. If the restructuring goes as expected, Bumi will be able to reduce its commercial debt to $1.6 billion. (bbn) © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.