For the first time in the regency’s history, CEO of Zhejiang Huayou Cobalt Company Limited (Huayou) Chen Xuehua (Chairman Chen) arrived on a private jet in Kolaka, Central Sulawesi. For the first time in the regency’s history, CEO of Zhejiang Huayou Cobalt Company Limited (Huayou) Chen Xuehua (Chairman Chen) arrived on a private jet in Kolaka, Central Sulawesi. Chairman Chen joined the CEO of PT Vale Indonesia Febriany Eddy, to visit the Pomalaa Block smelter project site. They also met with Kolaka regent Ahmad Safei before continuing their tour. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. For the first time in the regency’s history, CEO of Zhejiang Huayou Cobalt Company Limited (Huayou) Chen Xuehua (Chairman Chen) arrived on a private jet in Kolaka, Central Sulawesi. or the first time in the regency’s history, CEO of Zhejiang Huayou Cobalt Company Limited (Huayou) Chen Xuehua (Chairman Chen) arrived on a private jet in Kolaka, Central Sulawesi. Chairman Chen joined the CEO of PT Vale Indonesia Febriany Eddy, to visit the Pomalaa Block smelter project site. They also met with Kolaka regent Ahmad Safei before continuing their tour. For two days from June 8-9, Chairman Chen and Febriany visited project sites including a port, the mining areas, and a planned High-Pressure Acid Leach (HPAL) site. During this visit, Vale Indonesia and Huayou reaffirmed their commitment and solidarity in realizing the project, with Vale CEO Febriany emphasizing that the project in Pomalaa is not “planned” but “underway” “After a visit to the Pomalaa block, Huayou is optimistic that investing in Pomalaa is the right decision and that this project will work well for Huayou. For the later part [of the project], Huayou will need to work together with Vale in the social and communication aspects and a firmer implementation of environmental, social, and corporate governance (ESG),” said Huayou VP Gao Baojun. The agreement between Vale Indonesia and the China-based company was made official through a framework cooperation agreement (FCA) signed on April 27, 2022. According to the agreement, Huayou will build the HPAL plant with its advanced technology and system while Vale Indonesia will be mining nickel in the form of limonite ore and low-grade saprolite ore. The HPAL at Pomalaa is projected to have a production capacity of up to 120,000 metric tons of nickel per year. The project at Pomalaa block is one of the two Sulawesi smelter projects under Vale Indonesia. Currently, Vale Indonesia operates an integrated mine and nickel refinery in Sorowako, South Sulawesi. It has been operating for 53 years and generates the lowest carbon emissions per ton of nickel in Indonesia. Vale Indonesia has made a commitment to avoid using coal to power its new smelters. While there are plans to replace the fossil fuel in Sorowako with hydro power, Vale Indonesia is still working with Huayou to look for environmentally-friendly alternative energy sources to minimize the carbon footprint in the region. “We appreciate that our partner is in line with our low carbon agenda, to not use a coal-fired power plant. This FCA is evidence of the alignment of our sustainability commitments, which is extremely important for PT Vale,” Febriany said during the signing ceremony. “We are seeing a good relationship between Vale and the surrounding community, which is a relief for Huayou,” said Chairman Chen. Kolaka regent Ahmad Safei also assured that the Kolaka Regency government will assist Vale Indonesia within the scope of its authority. “We hope that PT Vale would soon finish the project. The factory, once it’s established, will empower the local community by reducing unemployment and poverty,” he said. © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.