The government's move to grant state-owned coal mine concessions to business entities owned by religious groups may discourage foreign investment in the domestic coal sector. Handing coal concessions to business entities backed by religious groups could risk undermining mining standards already established by the industry, as concerns emerge over the capability of these organizations to uphold them. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. The government's move to grant state-owned coal mine concessions to business entities owned by religious groups may discourage foreign investment in the domestic coal sector. anding coal concessions to business entities backed by religious groups could risk undermining mining standards already established by the industry, as concerns emerge over the capability of these organizations to uphold them. President Joko “Jokowi” Widodo initiated the move on May 30 through a regulation stipulating that the issuance of special mining license areas (WIUPK) could be expedited for business entities owned by religious organizations “to improve people’s welfare.” This license is strictly limited to coal deposits previously controlled by miners holding work contracts (PKP2B), implying the concession would not include minerals, which the government deems more difficult to extract. The regulation requires religious organizations to have a controlling stake in a business entity in order to acquire the license, which cannot be transferred to other entities without the approval of the energy and mineral resources minister. Ahmad Zuhdi Dwi Kusuma, an industry and regional analyst at state-owned lender Bank Mandiri told The Jakarta Post on Wednesday that he expected there would be problems related to their capability to manage things professionally, transparently and accountably. “It is questionable that they would be able to do sustainable mining practice without sufficient capabilities,” Zuhdi said. This could put a dent in the investment climate in Indonesia’s mining industry albeit only to a limited extent, he said. © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Or continue login with Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.