A plan to ban the export of copper concentrate starting June has sparked concern among businesses over the readiness of domestic industries to absorb the product. Aplan to ban the export of copper concentrate starting in June has sparked concern among businesses over the readiness of domestic industries to absorb the product. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. A plan to ban the export of copper concentrate starting June has sparked concern among businesses over the readiness of domestic industries to absorb the product. plan to ban the export of copper concentrate starting in June has sparked concern among businesses over the readiness of domestic industries to absorb the product. Indonesia is one of the world’s top exporters of copper concentrate, a partially processed copper ore that requires further work to increase its purity. From January to November last year, the country shipped out 2.8 million tonnes of the commodity worth US$8.4 billion. In a bid to push domestic processing of the commodity, such as smelting, and thereby add value to exports, President Joko “Jokowi” Widodo announced the copper concentrate export ban on Jan. 10. The move is part of the government’s wider strategy to move up the commodity value chain by refining minerals in the country rather than exporting them as ore. The policy is based on the 2020 Mining Law, which mandates a ban on the export of several mining commodities three years after its issuance to push downstream industrial development in commodity-rich Indonesia. Djoko Widajatno, executive director of the Indonesia Mining Association (IMA), estimates that the ban would result in an excess of around 1 million tonnes of copper cathodes, given that Indonesia currently only has one copper cathode smelter © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Or continue login with Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.