Gold and copper miner PT Freeport Indonesia (PTFI) is still open to building a new smelter in Sumbawa, West Nusa Tenggara, even though the company has officially submitted a proposal to the government to develop such a facility in Gresik, East Java Gold and copper miner PT Freeport Indonesia (PTFI) is still open to building a new smelter in Sumbawa, West Nusa Tenggara, even though the company has officially submitted a proposal to the government to develop such a facility in Gresik, East Java. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. Gold and copper miner PT Freeport Indonesia (PTFI) is still open to building a new smelter in Sumbawa, West Nusa Tenggara, even though the company has officially submitted a proposal to the government to develop such a facility in Gresik, East Java old and copper miner PT Freeport Indonesia (PTFI) is still open to building a new smelter in Sumbawa, West Nusa Tenggara, even though the company has officially submitted a proposal to the government to develop such a facility in Gresik, East Java. PTFI has pledged to develop the new smelter, worth US$2.2 billion, inside the Java Integrated Industrial and Port Estate in Gresik by 2022. The facility will have an annual input capacity of 2 million tons of copper concentrate. However, PTFI also signed a memorandum of understanding with another gold and copper miner, PT Amman Mineral Nusa Tenggara, on Aug. 31, 2017 to conduct a joint study on the prospect of jointly developing a new smelter in Sumbawa near the latter’s mining sites. “We have proposed a plan to the government to develop our new smelter in Gresik. But we have also reached an agreement with Amman to conduct a joint study. So, it’s still possible [to develop it in Sumbawa],” PTFI executive vice president Tony Wenas said on Wednesday. Meanwhile, Amman has started developing its own copper smelter with an input capacity of 660,000 tons in Sumbawa. As of mid-February, the development progress of Amman’s smelter had reached 10.1 percent, higher than PTFI’s facility in Gresik of only 2.4 percent. “If Amman jointly develops the new smelter with PTFI, the planned input capacity of the two companies will be combined,” Amman smelter project coordinator Lukman Mahfoedz said. “But it is up to PTFI whether it will continue this cooperation or not.” © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.