Freeport McMoRan president and CEO Richard C Freeport McMoRan president and CEO Richard C. Adkerson arrived at the Energy and Mineral Resources Ministry on Friday at 11:20 a.m. for a meeting with the minister, although details on the meeting were not disclosed.Freeport McMoRan is the parent company of PT Freeport Indonesia (PTFI), and has long been in talks with the government over its Grasberg copper mine in Papua and divesting 51 percent of PTFI shares as part of the terms of a new mining license.The ministry’s mineral and coal director general Bambang Gatot Ariyono claimed to have no information on the purpose of the meeting.“I don’t know yet, I was just called to come [to the meeting],” he said, when he was asked about the meeting between Energy and Mineral Resources Minister Ignasius Jonan and Adkerson upon his arrival at the ministry. Adkerson, who was accompanied by PTFI executive vice president Tony Wenas did not make any comments on the meeting. Recently, the ministry issued a ministerial regulation that extended the divestment deadline to 2019 for foreign companies holding a special mining permit (IUPK), which included Freeport. The extension of the deadline for divestment was stipulated in the Energy and Mineral Resources Ministerial Regulation No. 25/2018. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. Freeport McMoRan president and CEO Richard C reeport McMoRan president and CEO Richard C. Adkerson arrived at the Energy and Mineral Resources Ministry on Friday at 11:20 a.m. for a meeting with the minister, although details on the meeting were not disclosed.Freeport McMoRan is the parent company of PT Freeport Indonesia (PTFI), and has long been in talks with the government over its Grasberg copper mine in Papua and divesting 51 percent of PTFI shares as part of the terms of a new mining license.The ministry’s mineral and coal director general Bambang Gatot Ariyono claimed to have no information on the purpose of the meeting.“I don’t know yet, I was just called to come [to the meeting],” he said, when he was asked about the meeting between Energy and Mineral Resources Minister Ignasius Jonan and Adkerson upon his arrival at the ministry. Adkerson, who was accompanied by PTFI executive vice president Tony Wenas did not make any comments on the meeting. Recently, the ministry issued a ministerial regulation that extended the divestment deadline to 2019 for foreign companies holding a special mining permit (IUPK), which included Freeport. The extension of the deadline for divestment was stipulated in the Energy and Mineral Resources Ministerial Regulation No. 25/2018. © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.