The ministry has only approved budget plans (RKABs) from 15 companies that account for 65 percent of the overall mine production capacity in 2023, which stood at around 74,000 tonnes of tin ores. The Energy and Mineral Resources Ministry said it would evaluate the work and budget plans (RKABs) of tin mining companies following the high-profile corruption case of PT Timah, which is estimated to have caused Rp 271 trillion (US$17 billion) in state losses. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. The ministry has only approved budget plans (RKABs) from 15 companies that account for 65 percent of the overall mine production capacity in 2023, which stood at around 74,000 tonnes of tin ores. he Energy and Mineral Resources Ministry said it would evaluate the work and budget plans (RKABs) of tin mining companies following the high-profile corruption case of PT Timah, which is estimated to have caused Rp 271 trillion (US$17 billion) in state losses. A special staff member to Energy and Mineral Resources Minister Arifin Tasrif, Irwandy Arif, said the RKAB evaluation process was a regular procedure, however, there were currently many companies that did not fulfill the requirements. "Since there are ongoing [corruption] cases now, of course, these [companies] must be reevaluated. [This applies to] every company, not just PT Timah. All of them have parameters, and they must be fulfilled," Irwandy said on Friday. Timah, the state-owned company that holds the largest tin mining concession areas in the country, has been engulfed in a graft case in which former top company executives allegedly enabled other companies to mine in Timah’s concession areas in Bangka Belitung and take the profit for its personal gain. The Attorney General’s Office (AGO) has named at least 16 suspects in the case including former Timah president director Mochtar Riza Pahlevi Tabrani. The estimated Rp 271 trillion of potential state losses was calculated by IPB University environmental expert Bambang Hero Saharjo according to an Environment and Forestry Ministry regulation. The estimated environmental losses consist of ecological losses of Rp 183.7 trillion, economic losses of Rp 74.4 trillion and the cost of environmental recovery at Rp 12.1 trillion. © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Or continue login with Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.