State-owned Indonesia Battery Corporation (IBC) is considering acquisitions of mines abroad to buttress its supply chains as global uncertainty spotlights the importance of access to raw materials. Indonesia Battery Corporation (IBC) is considering acquisitions of overseas mines to buttress its supply chain as global uncertainty spotlights the importance of access to raw materials. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. State-owned Indonesia Battery Corporation (IBC) is considering acquisitions of mines abroad to buttress its supply chains as global uncertainty spotlights the importance of access to raw materials. ndonesia Battery Corporation (IBC) is considering acquisitions of overseas mines to buttress its supply chain as global uncertainty spotlights the importance of access to raw materials. In a hearing with House of Representatives Commission VII, which oversees technology and energy policy, an executive of state-owned mining holding company MIND ID, one of four IBC shareholders, explained that 20 percent of the raw materials needed for battery production had to be imported. “The [options] for corporate action to purchase foreign lithium mines or other means [to secure supply] are still being discussed under the promulgation of a road map,” MIND ID institutional relations director Dany Amrul Ichdan told hearing participants. Lithium hydroxide accounts for the largest portion of imports for the domestic battery industry with an estimated 70,000 tons shipped into the country per year, mostly from China, Chile and Australia. Next on the list is graphite, with some 44,000 tons per year supplied by China, Brazil and Mozambique, followed by manganese sulfate and cobalt sulfate with 12,000 tons per year each. According to the MIND ID document presented to lawmakers, most cobalt supplies come from Congo and Russia, while manganese is predominantly sourced in South Africa, Gabon and Australia. MIND ID noted that its nickel ore supply, which makes up 80 percent of total battery production materials, was already secured by the inventories of state-owned diversified mining company PT Aneka Tambang (Antam). © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Or continue login with Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.