Rent-seeking revelations deal blow to govt nickel strategy. The Attorney General’s Office (AGO) has moved to arrest Ridwan Djamaluddin, a politically wired technocrat who was once in charge of the country’s notorious mining industry, as it named him on Wednesday as a suspect in a graft case that has exposed rent-seeking activities that sought to exploit the ban on raw nickel exports. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. Rent-seeking revelations deal blow to govt nickel strategy. he Attorney General’s Office (AGO) has moved to arrest Ridwan Djamaluddin, a politically wired technocrat who was once in charge of the country’s notorious mining industry, as it named him on Wednesday as a suspect in a graft case that has exposed rent-seeking activities that sought to exploit the ban on raw nickel exports. The case relates to the illicit sale of mining permits in the Mandiodo Block in Southeast Sulawesi’s North Konawe regency, where raw nickel deposits have jumped in value due to the metal’s increasing importance in the global electric vehicle battery (EVB) industry. An AGO spokesman said Ridwan, a former minerals and coal director general at the Energy and Mineral Resources Ministry, was allegedly responsible for making changes to a 2018 ministerial decree on evaluating the work and budget plans (RKAB) of companies with mining permits. The revisions had allowed at least one mining firm with spent reserves to access an extra 1.5 million metric tons of nickel ore deposits in 2022. PT Kabaena Kromit Pratama is one of the firms alleged to have benefited from the revised decree by selling its mining permit to operate state miner PT Antam’s 157-hectare Mandiodo concession to unlicensed PT Law Agung Mining to reap a windfall profit. The Southeast Sulawesi Prosecutor’s Office was leading the investigation into the case, which had caused state losses of Rp 5.7 trillion (US$376.2 million), AGO spokeman Ketut Sumedana told a press conference on Wednesday. The AGO had also named as a suspect the ministry’s RKAB sub-coordinator, identified only by their initials HJ, for allegedly issuing a mining permit to PT Kabaena after the decree was changed. Both Ridwan and HJ have been detained at Salemba Prison in Central Jakarta. Energy ministry spokesman Agung Pribadi said on Thursday the ministry was “concerned” about the latest developments, but it would respect the legal process. Right-hand man Ridwan is a geologist who comes from a small coterie of technocrats considered loyal to Coordinating Maritime Affairs and Investment Minister Luhut Pandjaitan. In 2020, he was appointed as the energy ministry’s number one man for regulating the nation’s mining industry. The Minerals and Coal Directorate General holds a central role in shaping policy in the critical minerals industry, which has emerged as a pillar of Indonesia’s international trade strategy. Before that, he served as the transportation and infrastructure undersecretary at Luhut’s office and was tasked with overseeing the energy ministry. Two months before he was named as suspect, Ridwan stepped down as a commissioner of state-owned mining holding company MIND ID, which administers state miners such as PT Antam, PT Freeport and PT Inalum. In May 2022, Ridwan was appointed as the acting governor of Bangka Belitung Islands by Home Minister Tito Karnavian, underscoring his links to top government officials. This April, he handed over his duties in the outlying province to Suganda Pandapotan. According to the latest state wealth report released this month, Ridwan’s total assets were valued at Rp 16.6 billion. Revisiting strategy Ridwan’s arrest strengthens the ministry’s image as an institution especially prone to corruption. Just over a week ago, the AGO included two other energy officials among the 10 suspects it named in the Mandiodo Block graft case. Apart from ministry officials, the office has named several businesspeople, including PT Lawu Agung Mining executive director Windu Aji Susanto, as suspects in the case. In June, the Corruption Eradication Commission (KPK) named 10 suspects in its investigation into allowances the energy ministry gave to its minerals and coal officials. The Mandiodo graft case also puts the spotlight on the national strategy for critical minerals, which has been informed by the resource nationalism of President Joko “Jokowi” Widodo’s administration. The European Union has dragged Indonesia to the World Trade Organization (WTO) for allegedly violating antitrust laws with the country’s raw nickel export ban, and the revelation that local rent-seekers sought to keep deposits of the valuable mineral in circulation has delivered a blow to the government’s critical minerals strategy. Publish What You Pay (PWYP) Indonesia, a transparency and accountability nongovernmental organization, called on law enforcement to get to the bottom of the Mandiodo case in a statement published on Thursday. The NGO has demanded that the AGO investigate “the possible involvement of other state officials, businesspeople, police or other actors”, including the potential commission of money laundering and other white-collar crimes. “PWYP Indonesia urges President Jokowi and the Energy and Mineral Resources Minister [Arifin Tasrif] to carry out a comprehensive and integrated overhaul of the [mining industry’s] governance,” said the NGO’s national coordinator Aryanto Nugroho. As the top global producer of nickel, a key component of EVBs, Indonesia is expected to play a greater role as the world shifts up a gear in the energy transition. Global demand for EVBs is projected to grow 30 percent annually and reach close to 4,500 gigawatt-hours by 2030, said a McKinsey & Company report. The consulting firm also said it expected the EVB value chain to increase tenfold between 2020 and 2030 to US$410 billion in annual revenue. (tjs) © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.