The facility will increase the company’s processing capacity to 3 million tonnes of copper concentrate per year from the previous annual rate of 1 million tonnes. Gold and copper mining company PT Freeport Indonesia (PTFI) is set to begin operating a new smelter in Gresik, East Java, after having finished constructing the US$3.7 billion facility. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. The facility will increase the company’s processing capacity to 3 million tonnes of copper concentrate per year from the previous annual rate of 1 million tonnes. old and copper mining company PT Freeport Indonesia (PTFI) is set to begin operating a new smelter in Gresik, East Java, after having finished constructing the US$3.7 billion facility. The smelter will increase the company’s processing capacity to 3 million tonnes of copper concentrate per year from the previous annual rate of 1 million tonnes. The mining giant is expected to produce over 900,000 tonnes of copper cathode annually, up from the existing 300,000 tonnes. Freeport Indonesia president director Tony Wenas said on Thursday that the smelter’s completion meant the company had officially fulfilled the government mandate stipulated in the special mining license (IUPK) the company was issued in 2018. Though the smelter was operational, Tony said it would still need another six to 10 weeks to begin producing its first copper cathode, which he estimated would take place in August. The smelter was expected to begin full production by year-end, he added. “Hopefully the smelter will begin production before Independence Day,” he said during a live broadcast of the ceremony in Gresik on Thursday. Smelters have been the government’s main method to push the downstream agenda in the country, as it seeks to increase exports of processed minerals, which have a higher value than their raw forms. © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Or continue login with Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.