PT Freeport Indonesia plans to file a lawsuit against the government over revised export duties on mineral concentrates but the government said it will defend the policy. PT Freeport Indonesia (PTFI) plans to file a lawsuit against the government over revised export duties on mineral concentrates imposed to favor the country’s downstream agenda, according to mining giant Freeport-McMoran's quarterly report published in US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filling.on Thursday. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. PT Freeport Indonesia plans to file a lawsuit against the government over revised export duties on mineral concentrates but the government said it will defend the policy. T Freeport Indonesia (PTFI) plans to file a lawsuit against the government over revised export duties on mineral concentrates imposed to favor the country’s downstream agenda, according to mining giant Freeport-McMoran's quarterly report published in US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filling.on Thursday. Freeport-McMoran controls 48.76 percent of PTFI ownership with the rest owned by state-run miner holding MIND ID. Freeport argues that under its 2018 mining license, no duties are required once its smelter is at least half-complete. The government verified that the company’s smelter construction progress had exceeded 50 percent as of this March. “PTFI is continuing to discuss the applicability of the revised regulation with the Indonesian government and will contest, and seek recovery of, any assessments,” said mining giant Freeport-McMoran's report regarding its Indonesian unit. The government previously planned to ban exports of bauxite and copper in June, as it had with nickel in 2020, while allowing several companies including Freeport to continue shipping minerals until mid-2024 to give them time to finish the construction of their smelters. However, the government revised the regulation on July 12 imposing an export duty of 7.5 percent on copper concentrates for companies with smelter progress between 70 and 90 percent in the second half of the year and 10 percent next year, as shown in Finance Ministerial Regulation No. 71/2023. The amount will be deducted by 2.5 percentage points in both periods for progress above 90 percent. Previously, the government implemented a 50-percent threshold that miners had to meet to be exempted from export duty. According to Freeport’s filing, its smelter construction reached 75 percent progress in the first half of this year. The mining powerhouse retains a license to ship copper concentrate from its Indonesian base until May 2024, but the new government export-duty limits may hinder operations, as noted by Reuters. The government has responded saying that it would maintain the policy nevertheless. Askolani, the Finance Ministry’s customs and excise director general, said on Monday the policy had been jointly prepared across ministries and that the regulation was in line with the government’s plan to boost its downstream vision, as quoted from Kontan. Coordinating Economic Minister Airlangga Hartarto told reporters on Monday that the export duty policy was rational and the government would continue monitoring the developments. “Regarding this [planned] lawsuit, we’ll see,” Airlangga said, as quoted from Kompas.com. Rizal Kasli, head of the Indonesian Mining Experts Association (Perhapi) told The Jakarta Post on Tuesday that the export duty could reduce Freeport's revenue. According to Freeport’s filing, the duty could raise production costs for Freeport by US$418.9 per tonne if the 7.5 percent rate was applied. However, its impact would be felt by the government as well, as it owns 51 percent of the company shares. Rizal added it was best if the government was consistent with its previous rules and allowed Freeport to remain exempt from the export duty. He said the government’s move could be seen as a way to push Freeport to speed up its smelter construction, but suggested this be done through a fine that the company must pay if it exceeded a particular deadline agreed with the government. © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.