Gold and copper miner giant PT Freeport Indonesia has signed a contract valued at US$3 billion to work on the Manyar copper smelter plant project in Gresik, East Java. Gold and copper mining giant PT Freeport Indonesia (PTFI) has signed a US$3 billion contract to develop a copper smelter in Gresik, East Java, ending a year-long uncertainty over the miner’s downstreaming plans. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. Gold and copper miner giant PT Freeport Indonesia has signed a contract valued at US$3 billion to work on the Manyar copper smelter plant project in Gresik, East Java. old and copper mining giant PT Freeport Indonesia (PTFI) has signed a US$3 billion contract to develop a copper smelter in Gresik, East Java, ending a year-long uncertainty over the miner’s downstreaming plans. Freeport Indonesia wrote in a statement on July 15 that it had signed an engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) contract with Japan-controlled PT Chiyoda International Indonesia (PTCII) to develop the smelter in the Java Integrated Industrial and Port Estate (JIIPE) in Gresik, East Java. The Manyar smelter will produce copper cathodes -- one of the key materials used in batteries and electrical wiring -- from concentrate supplied by Freeport Indonesia’s Grasberg mine in Papua, one of the largest copper and gold mines in the world. The smelter will have a processing capacity of 1.7 million tons of copper concentrate per year. “This contract signing shows PTFI’s commitment to develop a smelter in accordance with the 2018 divestment agreement,” said PTFI president director Tony Wenas in the statement. Read also: Freeport agrees to 51% divestment, other terms: CEO PTFI is expected to develop a metal smelter as one of many conditions for extending its mining permit for the Grasberg mine. The miner also had to divest shares to the government through state-owned mining holding MIND ID. The signing of the contract between PTFI and PTCII marks the end of plans between Freeport and China’s Tsingshan Holding Group to build the smelter in Weda Bay, North Maluku, that came to light late last year. © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Or continue login with Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.