The government has asked gold and copper miner PT Freeport Indonesia (PTFI) to quickly realize its plan to build a new smelter in Papua as one of the perquisites to extend the firm’s mining permit to 2061. The government has asked gold and copper miner PT Freeport Indonesia (PTFI) to quickly realize its plan to build a new smelter in Papua as one of the perquisites to extending the firm’s mining permit to 2061. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. The government has asked gold and copper miner PT Freeport Indonesia (PTFI) to quickly realize its plan to build a new smelter in Papua as one of the perquisites to extend the firm’s mining permit to 2061. he government has asked gold and copper miner PT Freeport Indonesia (PTFI) to quickly realize its plan to build a new smelter in Papua as one of the perquisites to extending the firm’s mining permit to 2061. Energy and Mineral Resources Minister Arifin Tasrif said the extension was based on the consideration that there were still significant mineral reserves in Grasberg, Papua that had yet to be exploited. “Yes, we could [extend] PTFI’s [operations to] 2061 because the company’s been around for decades and in these terms, there are reserves, how can we terminate the contract and look for other [investors]?” he told reporters in Jakarta on Friday. Previously, President Joko “Jokowi” Widodo said on Nov. 13 that he expected to finalize the negotiations to raise the government’s stake in Freeport Indonesia by 10 percent and to extend the firm’s mining permit for another 20 years, at the end of this month. Currently, the government, through state-owned mining holding company MIND ID, controls 51 percent of PTFI’s shares, with United States-based Freeport McMoRan controlling the remaining 49 percent since 2018. That year, the government tasked MIND ID, previously known as Inalum, to purchase PTFI shares from Freeport McMoRan to increase the state ownership in the gold and copper mining firm. The talks for the extension occurred despite Freeport’s permit being set to last until 2041, following its last negotiation with the government years ago to extend its operation beyond 2021. © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Or continue login with Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.