The Energy and Mineral Resources Ministry decided this month to increase mining company Freeport Indonesia’s copper concentrate export quota to 700,000 wet metric tons (wmt), more than triple the previous quota of 198,282 wmt. The Energy and Mineral Resources Ministry decided this month to increase mining company Freeport Indonesia’s copper concentrate export quota to 700,000 wet metric tons (wmt), a more than threefold increase on the previous quota of 198,282 wmt. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. The Energy and Mineral Resources Ministry decided this month to increase mining company Freeport Indonesia’s copper concentrate export quota to 700,000 wet metric tons (wmt), more than triple the previous quota of 198,282 wmt. he Energy and Mineral Resources Ministry decided this month to increase mining company Freeport Indonesia’s copper concentrate export quota to 700,000 wet metric tons (wmt), a more than threefold increase on the previous quota of 198,282 wmt. The ministry's minerals director Yunus Saefulhak told reporters in Jakarta on Friday that the decision was a result of successful optimization schemes at the company’s Grasberg copper and gold mine in Papua province. Read also: Freeport seeks to double export quota this year “Some studies were conducted and we found that it is still possible to optimize and exploit available means of production,” he said. He added that the increased copper export quota did not change the company’s overall copper production target of 1.3 million wmt for this year. The higher quota is a revision of Freeport’s one-year copper export license that was renewed in March. © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.