Freeport and Amman are more than 90 percent complete with the construction of their smelters and operations for both facilities are expected to begin in June of this year. Two major copper producers will start commissioning a smelter in the late first half of this year, as both companies near completion of their respective processing facilities. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. Freeport and Amman are more than 90 percent complete with the construction of their smelters and operations for both facilities are expected to begin in June of this year. wo major copper producers will start commissioning a smelter in the late first half of this year, as both companies near completion of their respective processing facilities. Publicly listed Amman Mineral International plans to begin operations of its copper and gold smelters this June while PT Freeport Indonesia (PTFI) seeks to start operating theirs between June and July. Amman Mineral International spokesperson Kartika Octaviana said in a statement on Monday that the company expects to complete the construction by the end of May. As of last December, the progress had reached 76.1 percent complete, the miner said. Meanwhile, construction of its precious metal refinery had progressed to 72.7 percent completion at the end of last year and the company plans to open the refinery in June. “The achievement is part of Amman’s commitment as one of the largest copper and gold mining companies in Indonesia to always be involved in the development of the national mining industry to bring benefits to the regional and national economies,” Kartika said. Both facilities will allow Amman to process up to 900,000 kilotonnes per year worth of concentrate from the nearby Batu Hijau mine as well as the Elang project, which is still under development. Read also: Indonesia to allow Freeport, Amman Mineral to ship copper concentrate until 2024 © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Or continue login with Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.