The government is considering to allow PT Freeport Indonesia to continue shipping copper concentrate out of the country despite an export ban meant to kick in after June. The government says it may allow gold and copper mining company PT Freeport Indonesia (PTFI) to continue exporting copper concentrate despite a ban meant to kick in after June. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. The government is considering to allow PT Freeport Indonesia to continue shipping copper concentrate out of the country despite an export ban meant to kick in after June. he government says it may allow gold and copper mining company PT Freeport Indonesia (PTFI) to continue exporting copper concentrate despite a ban meant to kick in after June. The 2020 Mining Law stipulates an end of such shipments to take effect three years after the law came into effect, which would be on July 1 this year. Currently, PTFI has a copper export quota of 2.3 million tonnes. Coordinating Economic Minister Airlangga Hartarto told The Jakarta Post on Thursday that a continuation of exports may be considered, depending on the progress made on PTFI’s smelter. He said the government would continue to look closely at the development. “If the exports [are stopped] but the refinery is not completed, what are we going to do?” Airlangga said in an interview at his office. A similar consideration would apply with regard to the export of other minerals, he said, adding that shipments would all depend on the progress and readiness of the smelting industry for the respective minerals. “We can’t just ban [the exports] while we don’t have the smelter yet. What are you going to do? There have to be smelters built as well,” Airlangga said. Allowing copper concentrate exports to continue would add to a long list of exemptions the government has granted for exports of unrefined minerals. Read also: Copper export ban comes too early, mining firms warn Prior to the 2020 Mining Law, multiple calls for relaxation have been accommodated by the government despite the requirement to build smelters so that minerals can be refined in the country rather than being shipped out in raw form. The idea behind banning the export of unprocessed or slightly purified minerals is to force investment into downstream industries. However, Energy and Mineral Resources Minister Arifin Tasrif told reporters on Monday that preventing Freeport from exporting its copper now would cost the country around US$8 billion in lost state revenue, assuming the international price of $4.50 per tonne. “If we ban [the copper exports], there will be many losses, because [the government] holds a 51 percent stake. Not to mention other revenue in the form of taxes,” Arifin was quoted as saying by Kontan, adding that the ministry would continue to assess the export policy. PTFI is working on a $3 billion smelter project in Gresik regency, East Java, which it expects to start operating next year. After several delays and setbacks, some blamed on the coronavirus pandemic, progress on the refining facility currently stands at 51.7 percent. PTFI spokeswoman Katri Krisnati told the Post on Thursday that the export ban could result in a suspension of PTFI’s operations and would hurt the company’s sales. The impact would be felt by the local government in Mimika regency in Central Papua and several other regencies, she said, adding that it could cost local authorities Rp 8.5 trillion ($563.29 million) a year in lost revenue on top of revenue losses for the central government. “We hope the government can consider issuing an implementing regulation that contains details of the types of minerals that can and cannot be sold overseas with certain considerations,” Katri said. Previously, implementing regulations have been a way for the government to afford mining companies some leeway to continue exports despite the stipulations of the 2020 Mining Law. © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.