The Energy and Mineral Resources Ministry has approved five projects in the downstream coal business as one of the conditions for coal mining firms to have their licenses extended. The Energy and Mineral Resources Ministry has approved five downstream coal projects as a condition for mining firms to continue operating by having their coal mining business work agreements (PKP2B) changed into special mining business permits (IUPK). Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. The Energy and Mineral Resources Ministry has approved five projects in the downstream coal business as one of the conditions for coal mining firms to have their licenses extended. he Energy and Mineral Resources Ministry has approved five downstream coal projects as a condition for mining firms to continue operating by having their coal mining business work agreements (PKP2B) changed into special mining business permits (IUPK). “One of the conditions (for the extension of coal mining permits) is to have a coal downstream program,” the ministry’s natural resources economics expert, Lana Saria, said in Jakarta on Thursday, as reported by news agency Antara. The approved downstream projects are run by PT Kaltim Prima Coal (KPC) and PT Arutmin Indonesia, both of which are subsidiaries of top coal miner Bumi Resources, as well as by PT Multi Harapan Utama, PT Adaro Indonesia and Indika Energy subsidiary PT Kideco Jaya Agung. KPC and Arutmin submitted proposals to build coal-to-methanol production facilities. The companies aim to produce 1.8 million and 2.95 million tonnes of methanol annually, respectively. Read also: Bukit Asam explores new downstream coal partnerships However, Lana noted that coal-to-methanol gasification projects had little economic value, so some aspects of the proposals would need to be changed. “For example, from downstream gasification to methanol will be changed to [from coal to] ammonia,” Lana said, as reported by Antara. © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Or continue login with Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.