The government has suspended nickel mining in the Mandiodo Block amid the AGO's ongoing investigation into corruption related to mining operation permits. The government has temporarily halted all nickel mining operations in the Mandiodo Block in Southeast Sulawesi, Energy and Mineral Resources Minister Arifin Tasrif said on Friday. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. The government has suspended nickel mining in the Mandiodo Block amid the AGO's ongoing investigation into corruption related to mining operation permits. he government has temporarily halted all nickel mining operations in the Mandiodo Block in Southeast Sulawesi, Energy and Mineral Resources Minister Arifin Tasrif said on Friday. The decision came after the Attorney General's Office (AGO) arrested Ridwan Djamaluddin, the ministry’s former minerals and coal director general, as a suspect in a graft case. "Yes, it is stopped," minister Arifin confirmed on Friday, as quoted by Kompas.com, adding that he would respect the legal process with regard to his former subordinate. Read also: Price not right: 'Discrimination' blamed for illegal nickel exports According to an AGO spokesman, Ridwan was allegedly responsible for making changes to a 2018 ministerial decree on evaluating the work and budget plans (RKAB) of companies with mining permits. The revision allowed at least one mining firm with spent reserves to access an extra 1.5 million metric tons of nickel ore deposits in 2022. PT Kabaena Kromit Pratama is among the firms to have benefitted from the stipulation, by selling its mining operation permit for state miner PT Antam's 157-hectare Mandiodo concession to unlicensed PT Lawu Agung Mining. © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Or continue login with Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.