The government’s plan to reduce the country’s dependence on alumina imports is one step closer to fruition after a deal was inked with alumina giant Aluminum Corporation of China Limited (Chalco) to jointly develop a refinery for bauxite Tspan>The government’s plan to reduce the country’s dependence on alumina imports is one step closer to fruition after a deal was inked with alumina giant Aluminum Corporation of China Limited (Chalco) to jointly develop a refinery for bauxite. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. The government’s plan to reduce the country’s dependence on alumina imports is one step closer to fruition after a deal was inked with alumina giant Aluminum Corporation of China Limited (Chalco) to jointly develop a refinery for bauxite span>The government’s plan to reduce the country’s dependence on alumina imports is one step closer to fruition after a deal was inked with alumina giant Aluminum Corporation of China Limited (Chalco) to jointly develop a refinery for bauxite. State-owned mining holding PT Indonesia Asahan Aluminium (Inalum) and its subsidiary PT Aneka Tambang (Antam) will develop a joint venture company with Chalco named PT Borneo Alumina Indonesia (BAI). The refinery, which will require investment of more than US$850 million, will be located in Mempawah, West Kalimantan. Inalum managing director Oggy A. Kosasih said in a press statement that his company would benefit from the project in that it would help reduce imports of alumina, which is the main material to produce aluminum ingot. “With the completion of this project, Inalum will end its dependence on the import [of alumina] and will reduce foreign exchange spending for imports amounting to around $600 million,” he said, adding that the firm needed 500,000 metric tons of alumina per year to produce 250,000 metric tons of aluminum ingot. The refinery will be constructed in two phases, and by the end of the project, total production capacity will stand at 2 million tons. The first phase of construction will start in the fourth quarter of 2018, and production is targeted to start with a capacity of 1 million tons by 2021. Plans for a state-owned refinery had been around for more than a decade, and a feasibility study had been conducted in 2006, Inalum president director Budi Gunadi Sadikin said after the signing of the agreement during the Indonesia Investment Forum (IIF) 2018 in Nusa Dua, Bali, on Oct. 11. “We have been exporting bauxite [the raw material for alumina] to China, India and Australia and then imported the alumina from there to make aluminium [ingot]. That is hilarious right?” he said. Budi further said the government aimed to complete the project soon, adding that land procurement had already been settled and a contractor had been named prior to the JV signing. Currently, there is only one smelter-grade aluminum refinery (SGAR) in the country, which is under the operation of PT Well Harvest Winning (WHW) in Ketapang, West Kalimantan. Well Harvest Winning is a joint venture between China-based investment holding firm China Hongqiao Group Limited as the majority shareholder with 56 percent and Jakarta-based mining firm PT Cita Mineral Investindo (CITA) holding 30 percent of the shares. The remaining shares belong to two firms, namely Winning Investment (HK) Company Ltd. and Shandong Weiqiao Aluminium and Electricity Co. Ltd. with 9 percent and 5 percent, respectively. CITA’s refinery started production in 2016 and has a total capacity of 1 million tons of SGA per annum. The facility is the first SGA refinery in the country, and it paves the way for CITA to get an export recommendation from the Energy and Mineral Resources Ministry. On Thursday, CITA announced it had just had its export allowance for processed bauxite extended for the 2018-2019 period starting this October at 3.28 million tons, 280,000 tons less than the first export quota. “We hope CITA’s mining products and SGA exports can continue to book a good performance, which in turn will give a contribution to the stakeholders,” CITA president director Lim Hok Seng said in a statement. In the first half of 2018, CITA’s net sales stood at Rp 887.2 billion ($58.52 million), marking a 283 percent jump from the same period last year in an achievement the firm attributed to its first export quota for bauxite issued by the government in October last year. © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.