The administrations of Papua province and Mimika regency have not agreed on the distribution of 10 percent shares in Freeport Indonesia. The government has told the administrations of Papua province and Mimika regency to establish a region-owned enterprise (BUMD) to hold the 10 percent combined shares they were allotted through the divestment of copper and gold miner PT Freeport Indonesia (PTFI). Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. The administrations of Papua province and Mimika regency have not agreed on the distribution of 10 percent shares in Freeport Indonesia. he government has told the administrations of Papua province and Mimika regency to establish a region-owned enterprise (BUMD) to hold the 10 percent combined shares they were allotted through the divestment of copper and gold miner PT Freeport Indonesia (PTFI). Mining, strategic industry and media affairs undersecretary Fajar Harry Sampurno of the State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs) Ministry said the BUMD was expected to be established this year. “It will be better if it is [established] in the first half [of 2019],” Fajar said as quoted by kontan.co.id on Thursday. Read also: A guide to understanding the Freeport divestment deal Under the initial agreement, the Papuan people were allotted 10 percent shares from the 51 percent PTFI divestment package, with 3 percent shares to be distributed to Papua province and 7 percent shares to Mimika regency. However, as the two regional administrations had not reached an agreement on the shares allocation, state mining holding company Indonesia Asahan Aluminium (Inalum) was still holding onto the 10 percent shares, Fajar said. He added that the Finance Ministry and Home Ministry were assisting the Papua and Mimika administrations in resolve their differences. Inalum now controls 51.23 percent shares in PTFI, following the closure of the US$3.85 billion divestment deal on Dec. 21, 2018 between the government and PTFI parent company Freeport-McMoRan. (bbn) © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.