President Joko “Jokowi” Widodo has signed a regulation that details new safety and security requirements for businesses seeking to mine nuclear materials in the country. President Joko “Jokowi” Widodo has signed a regulation that details new safety and security requirements for businesses seeking to mine nuclear materials in the country, amid the government’s ambition to build a nuclear power plant by 2040. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. President Joko “Jokowi” Widodo has signed a regulation that details new safety and security requirements for businesses seeking to mine nuclear materials in the country. resident Joko “Jokowi” Widodo has signed a regulation that details new safety and security requirements for businesses seeking to mine nuclear materials in the country, amid the government’s ambition to build a nuclear power plant by 2040. Government Regulation (PP) No. 52/2022, which came into effect on Dec. 12, requires businesses to complete a safety analysis before beginning to mine for nuclear materials. This includes a feasibility study, a design and construction plan for the mine, as well as emergency responses and countermeasures in case of a nuclear accident. In addition, businesses are required to manage their nuclear waste and conduct radiation exposure training programs. Mining firms are also required to avow, in a formal document, that they will not work in service of the development of nuclear arms. They must submit a business and development plan and regularly provide authorities with an updated inventory of nuclear materials mined and imports of any special equipment. Those that fail to comply with the safety and security procedures will face administrative sanctions, ranging from written reprimands and administrative fines to license revocations. The new regulation comes a month after Jokowi reworked the Nuclear Energy Regulatory Agency’s (Bapeten) non-tax revenue streams through the issuance of another government regulation. The new policy allows Bapeten to receive non-tax revenue in the form of administrative sanctions from businesses that fail to follow prevailing regulations. Atomic ambitions © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Or continue login with Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.