The path is clear for Arsjad Rasjid, president director of publicly listed coal mining firm Indika Energy, to become the chairman of the Indonesian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (Kadin) after a leadership race ended just before the final decision. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. he path is clear for Arsjad Rasjid, president director of publicly listed coal mining firm Indika Energy, to become the chairman of the Indonesian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (Kadin) after a leadership race ended just before the final decision. Arsjad had been set to compete for the post with Anindya Novyan Bakrie, the president director of holding company Bakrie & Brothers and eldest son of senior Golkar Party politician Aburizal Bakrie. However, two days prior to the general assembly where the leadership question was to be settled, the two agreed to bury the hatchet. The outgoing Kadin chairman, Rosan Roeslani, said the agreement had been reached in a meeting involving himself and the two contenders, which was followed by an audience with President Joko “Jokowi” Widodo. “Both of them agreed to become chairmen. The difference is that Anindya was named Kadin advisory council chairman, while Arsjad [was named] Kadin chairman,” Rosan told reporters in a press conference at the State Palace on Monday. Read also: Allegations of government interference mar Kadin leadership race The Kadin leadership race has been marred by allegations of government interference to back certain candidates. Speculation over such interference emerged after some Kadin members reported that they had been asked to vote for Arsjad by people believed to be connected to the State Intelligence Agency (BIN). © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Or continue login with Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.