Publicly listed coal miner PT Indika Energy, through its subsidiary PT Indika Mineral Investindo, has completed a US$5 million acquisition of bauxite miner PT Perkasa Investama Mineral in a move to diversify its business away from coal. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. ublicly listed coal miner PT Indika Energy, through its subsidiary PT Indika Mineral Investindo, has completed a US$5 million acquisition of bauxite miner PT Perkasa Investama Mineral in a move to diversify its business away from coal. Indika now controls 100 percent of the company. Indika Energy corporate secretary Adi Pramono noted in a disclosure statement on Wednesday that Perkasa Investama Mineral was engaged in management consulting as well as the metal and metal ore trading business. “The acquisition was part of [Indika Energy’s] attempt to diversify its business to non-coal sectors, especially the bauxite mineral mining and processing business,” he said in the disclosure. Read also: Indika, Foxconn sign JV agreement on EV factory Perkasa Investama Mineral also has two subsidiary companies, namely bauxite ore miner PT Mekko Metal Mining and non-ferrous metal smelting company PT Perkasa Alumina Indonesia. Non-ferrous metals are every metal and alloy that does not contain iron. Metals in this category include aluminum, copper and nickel. Indonesia holds one of the world’s largest reserves of bauxite, the ore used to make aluminum. Aluminum is used in the manufacturing of electric vehicles (EVs) and also in creating necessary charging infrastructure. The nation possesses approximately 1.2 billion tonnes, or 4 percent, of the world’s bauxite reserves of 30.39 billion tonnes, according to a 2020 report by the Energy and Mineral Resources Ministry. Read also: Energy transition to boost demand for metals, says Luhut Indika Energy has announced a goal of introducing renewable energy and developing an EV ecosystem in Indonesia. Electric four-wheeled vehicle company PT Mitra Motor Group (MMG), an Indika Energy subsidiary, created a joint venture with EV component producer Foxteq Singapore on Sept. 22. Focusing on manufacturing commercial electric cars and batteries, the venture was followed by an investment of Rp 39 billion ($2.5 million) from MMG, equivalent to 60 percent of the paid-up capital. Previously, the company’s EV manufacturing arm PT Ilectra Motor Group (IMG) launched the indigenous, fully electric Alva One Motorcycle, which will be manufactured in a factory in Cikarang, West Java. Aiming to develop the two-wheeler brand and its supporting ecosystem, IMG raised a total of $7.5 million in May from Alpha JWC Ventures and Horizon Ventures, equal to 21.4 percent of the company's shares, while Indika Energy added another $7.5 million. © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.