The plan was originally proposed by the House of Representatives Commission VII overseeing energy and mining. The Energy and Mineral Resources Ministry is mulling over a proposal to raise the domestic market obligation (DMO) for coal from 25 percent to 30 percent of total production to anticipate rising domestic demand. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. The plan was originally proposed by the House of Representatives Commission VII overseeing energy and mining. he Energy and Mineral Resources Ministry is mulling over a proposal to raise the domestic market obligation (DMO) for coal from 25 percent to 30 percent of total production to anticipate rising domestic demand. Energy Minister Arifin Tasrif told reporters on Friday that the government was "monitoring the domestic electricity sector and industries’ demand", to make a decision. However, there would be no increase in the DMO price for thermal coal, which is currently capped at US$70 per ton, he said. Read also: Govt mulls plan to form new entity to collect coal levies House of Representatives Commission VII overseeing energy and mining during a hearing with the energy ministry on Jan. 13 proposed increasing the DMO to 30 percent of total production to anticipate rising domestic coal consumption. Commission chairman Sugeng Suparwoto said "increasing coal DMO volume was important" considering coal-fired power plants with an estimated total capacity of 35,000 megawatts would begin operations in the next few years, which means domestic coal consumption for coal plants would reach around 175 million tons per year. Plans to improve DMO governance were taken after the government began on Jan. 1 a month-long ban on coal shipments to address a shortage in state power company PLN’s coal stocks, which could have led to widespread blackouts. The ban drove coal prices in China and Australia higher in January. © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Or continue login with Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.