With its downstreaming efforts, the government intends to exploit coal to slash oil and gas imports, supply domestic industries, absorb hard-to-sell coal and bump up gross domestic product (GDP) figures. Indonesia has pulled concerted efforts on coal downstreaming, including through legal means, as it seeks to exploit the country’s vast coal reserves and boost the economy, amid challenges in economic feasibility and the risk of environmental hazards. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. With its downstreaming efforts, the government intends to exploit coal to slash oil and gas imports, supply domestic industries, absorb hard-to-sell coal and bump up gross domestic product (GDP) figures. ndonesia has pulled concerted efforts on coal downstreaming, including through legal means, as it seeks to exploit the country’s vast coal reserves and boost the economy, amid challenges in economic feasibility and the risk of environmental hazards. The government passed two laws this year that cement the legal foundation for coal downstreaming, namely the new Mining Law and the Job Creation Law, to reaffirm its commitment and introduce incentives. The buzz over coal downstreaming officially started on June 10, when Indonesia passed Coal and Mineral Mining Law No. 3/2020, after months of deliberations between the government and House of Representatives. The law rolled out the first downstreaming incentive by guaranteeing 30-year permits with unlimited renewals for coal miners integrated with downstream facilities (Article 47). Nonintegrated miners’ permits are capped at 20 years with two extensions of 10 years each. Lawmakers then passed Job Creation Law No. 11/2020 on Nov. 2 that promised a zero percent coal royalty — a big incentive — for miners investing in downstream industries (Article 128A). In late November, the government issued Presidential Regulation (Perpres) No. 109/2020 that grants more incentives to two early-bird coal gasification projects considered nationally strategic projects (PSN). The incentives include a land and building acquisition tax waiver and less red tape. “These incentives are significant, but we will need to wait for further implementing regulations to see what the impact will be,” Norman Bissett, foreign legal consultant at HHP Law Firm, told The Jakarta Post via email on Dec. 1. He mentioned two lingering legal unknowns, namely whether or not all of a coal mine’s output needed to go into downstream projects and whether miners were required to build their own coal plants or could establish joint ventures. Coal is among Indonesia’s top export commodities, aside from palm oil, and the mining industry as a whole contributes big money to non-tax state revenue, official data shows. Miners contributed Rp 45.59 trillion (US$3.24 billion) to the country’s total non-tax state revenue of Rp 405 trillion last year, surpassing the government’s target of Rp 43.27 trillion. The mining sector has contributed Rp 31.41 trillion as of Dec. 10 this year, according to the Energy and Mineral Resources Ministry. With its downstreaming efforts, the government intends to exploit coal to slash oil and gas imports, supply domestic industries, absorb hard-to-sell coal and bump up gross domestic product (GDP) figures. The downstreaming of coal, of which Indonesia has the sixth-largest reserves in the world, includes the push to transform coal, the dirtiest fossil fuel, into cooking gas, methanol and electricity, among other commodities. The energy ministry is also working on a derivative government regulation (PP) that outlines the specifics of coal downstreaming. According to a 116-page draft regulation seen by the Post, the government recognizes four types of downstreaming: coal gasification, coal liquefaction, cokes-making and mine mouth coal-fired power plants (PLTU-MT). “This, I'm sure, will increase the commodities’ added value by several fold,” President Joko “Jokowi” Widodo said on the economic merits of downstreaming on Oct. 23. So far, the energy ministry unveiled on Nov. 23 11 non-power downstream coal projects in the pipeline, seven of which are coal gasification projects, including that of state-owned coal miner PT Bukit Asam (PTBA), the company that pioneered downstream coal in Indonesia and whose project is a listed PSN. Bukit Asam’s planned $2 billion facility, located in the coal-rich South Sumatra, can convert coal into urea, polypropylene and dimethyl ether (DME), which are, respectively, used to make fertilizer, plastics and a substitute cooking gas. The company has signaled a focus on making DME to replace Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG), which is Indonesia’s current go-to cooking fuel that is heavily imported. “[Coal gasification] is attractive to [China] because they have coal and don’t have to use other feedstocks, such as gas or oil, which would be largely imported. The same would go for Indonesia,” said principal analyst Rory Simington of energy consultancy Wood Mackenzie. Privately-owned PT Bumi Resources, the country’s most productive coal miner and a subsidiary of the politically wired Bakrie Group conglomerate, is also looking into a $2 billion coal gasification facility in coal-rich East Kalimantan that converts the dry fuel to methanol. The miner said the methanol would be used to produce biofuels, replacing imported oil, but the chemical could also be used as feedstock for domestic chemical industries. Bumi’s plant is the only other PSN-listed project thus far. While coal plants are the most straightforward option, funding is tight as dozens of global financial institutions, led by the World Bank since 2013, are closing their wallets to such high carbon dioxide-emitting facilities. “It cannot be denied that there’s huge environmental pressure [over coal],” Dharma Djojonegoro, chairman of the coal committee at the Indonesian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (Kadin), said on Oct. 27. Meanwhile, analysts have also warned that coal gasification would be a capital-intensive endeavor that no other major coal-mining country, apart from China, has executed in scale. China, they continued, only succeeded as it had a market to absorb coal derivatives. Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis (IEEFA) analyst Ghee Peh explained in an e-mail on Nov. 30 that China had a fleet of methanol-powered buses and encouraged chemical plants to use methanol. Finding such a methanol market in Indonesia “could require significant market intervention and ongoing subsidies”. The IEEFA previously calculated that making DME would cost Bukit Asam $377 million in operational losses each year. Indonesia would need to issue a new generation of fossil fuel subsidies, such as royalty and tax breaks, to keep such projects running. Wood Mackenzie’s Simington said several coal gasification projects had been proposed in Australia “but so far, none have been successfully commercialized”. “Coal gasification is fairly expensive; otherwise, it would have been done more globally,” he said. © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.