The agreement is one of three required for the divestment process of PTPI’s shares. The government and American mining giant Freeport-McMoran (FCX) plan to sign a sales and purchase agreement on Thursday afternoon in what would be another step toward majority ownership of PT Freeport Indonesia (PTFI) by state-owned mining holding company PT Indonesia Asahan Aluminium (Inalum). Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. The agreement is one of three required for the divestment process of PTPI’s shares. he government and American mining giant Freeport-McMoran (FCX) plan to sign a sales and purchase agreement on Thursday afternoon in what would be another step toward majority ownership of PT Freeport Indonesia (PTFI) by state-owned mining holding company PT Indonesia Asahan Aluminium (Inalum). The agreement is one of three required for the divestment process of PTPI’s shares. The two other agreements, which could also be signed on Thursday, are on information exchange and shareholders. The sales and purchase agreement is likely to lay out details on the disbursement of US$3.85 billion for Australian miner Rio Tinto’s participating interest in PTFI and $350 million for FCX’s shares in PTFI by Inalum as agreed upon in a previous document. The deal was initially to be made on Wednesday as the government had sent out invitations for an event, but the event was canceled without any clarification. Meanwhile, on Wednesday morning, the United States Embassy issued a press release regarding the visit of US Ambassador to Indonesia Joseph R. Donovan, Jr to PTFI's site in Mimika, Papua, from Sept. 21 to 24. Donovan emphasized his support for President Joko "Jokowi" Widodo's vision of a "win-win" outcome that would see a contract extension for the operation of the gold and copper mining site in the easternmost Indonesian province. “I head back to Jakarta with an improved understanding of the need for a timely resolution to negotiations over Freeport's operating rights extension," he said. The three agreements are a follow-up to a heads of agreement signed on July 12 by Inalum and FXC. (bbn) © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.