President Joko “Jokowi” Widodo announced on Friday that Indonesia became the majority owner of PT Freeport Indonesia (PTFI) after increasing its share ownership from 9.36 percent to 51.23 percent through a US$3.85 billion deal. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. resident Joko “Jokowi” Widodo announced on Friday that Indonesia became the majority owner of PT Freeport Indonesia (PTFI) after increasing its share ownership from 9.36 percent to 51.23 percent through a US$3.85 billion deal. “This majority ownership will be entirely for the benefit of our people. [….] Our income in tax, non-tax [revenues] and royalties will be bigger and better,” Jokowi said at the State Palace as aired live by Kompas.tv. The President further said he had also received reports about PTFI’s commitments in smelter development and solutions to environmental issues as well as the settlement of 10 percent ownership of PTFI shares for Papua’s people. “It means we have settled all [issues] and work can start,” said Jokowi, who was accompanied by Energy and Mineral Resources Minister Ignasius Jonan, Finance Minister Sri Mulyani, State-Owned Enterprises Minister Rini Soemarno, Environment and Forestry Minister Siti Nurbaya, Freeport McMoRan (FCX) CEO Richard Adkerson and state mining holding company PT Indonesia Asahan Aluminium (Inalum) president director Budi Gunadi Sadikin. Inalum as the government’s representative holds 51.23 percent of PTFI, which operates the world’s second-biggest copper mine, Grasberg in Papua. According to data from Inalum, the final structure of PTFI’s shares after the divestment deal sees FCX owning 48.76 percent, Inalum with 26.23 percent and PT Indonesia Papua Metal & Mineral (PT IPMM) with 25 percent. In the structure, IPMM’s shares will be owned by Inalum and a Papua-owned enterprise (BUMD) with shares at 60 percent and 40 percent respectively. (bbn) © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.