Trade Ministry International Trade Negotiations Director General Djatmiko Bris Witjaksono insists Indonesia could appeal a WTO decision or use other means to protect its strategic interests. Various stakeholders appear unconcerned about the prospect of a possible defeat for Indonesia at the World Trade Organization after President Joko "Jokowi" Widodo revealed the country may lose a dispute with the European Union over nickel exports. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. Trade Ministry International Trade Negotiations Director General Djatmiko Bris Witjaksono insists Indonesia could appeal a WTO decision or use other means to protect its strategic interests. arious stakeholders appear unconcerned about the prospect of a possible defeat for Indonesia at the World Trade Organization after President Joko "Jokowi" Widodo revealed the country may lose a dispute with the European Union over nickel exports. Trade Ministry International Trade Negotiations Director General Djatmiko Bris Witjaksono noted that disputes were “common” in international trade and that Indonesia could appeal or use other means to support its strategic interests. The important thing was not whether Indonesia would win or lose, he said, but to what extent the government could sustain the "policy platform regime." “The final [work] of the panel is still in progress. Let’s wait and see how this turns out,” Djatmiko told The Jakarta Post on Monday. To initiate the WTO dispute, the EU addressed a so-called request for consultations to Indonesia in November 2019 over restrictions imposed by the latter on the export of raw materials like nickel, which is required for stainless steel production. Brussels argued that Indonesia’s curbs on nickel exports violated Article XI:1 of the 1994 General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). As the negotiations broke down, the EU requested in January 2021 that a WTO panel settle the dispute. © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Or continue login with Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.