Miner PT Indo Tambangraya Megah (ITMG) will delay its plan to acquire new coal mining sites this year as the company needs to take careful measures to avoid loss amid a bearish coal market Miner PT Indo Tambangraya Megah (ITMG) will delay its plan to acquire new coal mining sites this year as the company needs to take careful measures to avoid loss amid a bearish coal market.“We keep selecting [the mining sites]. But, there will be a short delay for the acquisitions as we need to be more prudent in taking actions,” ITMG director Leksono Poeranto said on Thursday. ITMG said earlier that it planned to acquire two mining sites in East Kalimantan before the end of the year. The company estimates that the acquisitions will cost at between US$100 million and $200 million. “We are seeking greenfield sites, which have coal at about 6,000 in calorie,” Leksono said.ITMG is targeting to produce 25.6 million tons of coal by the year’s end. According to Leksono, the company’s production will hit 18 million in the third quarter of the year. Shares in ITMG were unchanged at Rp 42,000 (US$4.39) apiece on Thursday. The shares have risen by about 9 percent a year to date. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. Miner PT Indo Tambangraya Megah (ITMG) will delay its plan to acquire new coal mining sites this year as the company needs to take careful measures to avoid loss amid a bearish coal market iner PT Indo Tambangraya Megah (ITMG) will delay its plan to acquire new coal mining sites this year as the company needs to take careful measures to avoid loss amid a bearish coal market.“We keep selecting [the mining sites]. But, there will be a short delay for the acquisitions as we need to be more prudent in taking actions,” ITMG director Leksono Poeranto said on Thursday. ITMG said earlier that it planned to acquire two mining sites in East Kalimantan before the end of the year. The company estimates that the acquisitions will cost at between US$100 million and $200 million. “We are seeking greenfield sites, which have coal at about 6,000 in calorie,” Leksono said.ITMG is targeting to produce 25.6 million tons of coal by the year’s end. According to Leksono, the company’s production will hit 18 million in the third quarter of the year. Shares in ITMG were unchanged at Rp 42,000 (US$4.39) apiece on Thursday. The shares have risen by about 9 percent a year to date. © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.