The Java Sea, the Makassar Strait and the Natuna-North Natuna waters is estimated to contain a combined potential yield of 17.65 billion cubic meters of sea sand sediments, The Maritime Affairs and Fisheries Ministry has announced areas permitted for sea sand mining, inviting businesses to apply for licenses to conduct the activity in those locations. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. The Java Sea, the Makassar Strait and the Natuna-North Natuna waters is estimated to contain a combined potential yield of 17.65 billion cubic meters of sea sand sediments, he Maritime Affairs and Fisheries Ministry has announced areas permitted for sea sand mining, inviting businesses to apply for licenses to conduct the activity in those locations. Those areas include the Java Sea, the Makassar Strait and the Natuna-North Natuna waters with the three containing a combined potential yield of 17.65 billion cubic meters (cbm) of sea sand sediment. Permit holders will have a depth limit of three meters, according to the ministry’s statement on Friday. “The selection of these locations was certainly carried out after coordinating with a number of parties and was based on scientific studies,” the Maritime Affairs and Fisheries Minister Sakti Wahyu Trenggono said in the statement. Read also: Lobster larvae exports could derail govt plans for fishery industries, experts warn The announcement comes months after President Joko “Jokowi” Widodo signed a regulation that reversed a decades-old ban on sea sand mining and exports. The new rule, introduced in May last year, allows permit holders to collect sediment, including sea sand, and use it for land reclamation, private and state infrastructure development and even exports provided that domestic needs have been met. Before the ban was introduced in 2007, most sea sand mined in the country was sent to Singapore, according to the Singaporean government. © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Or continue login with Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.