The government has revoked 2,078 permits for mining, 192 for forestry and 36 for plantations as it seeks to overhaul permit governance. The government has revoked thousands of inactive land-use permits in the mining, forestry and plantation sectors covering millions of hectares, as it seeks to improve permit governance and land distribution. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. The government has revoked 2,078 permits for mining, 192 for forestry and 36 for plantations as it seeks to overhaul permit governance. he government has revoked thousands of inactive land-use permits in the mining, forestry and plantation sectors covering millions of hectares, as it seeks to improve permit governance and land distribution. President Joko “Jokowi” Widodo said 2,078 of the revoked permits were for mining, 192 for forestry and 36 for plantations. Jokowi said the government was continuing to evaluate mining, forestry and other land-use permits and revoke those found to be inactive, unproductive, transferred to other parties or in violation of regulations. “This improvement and maintenance of order is an integral part of the overhaul in the governance of issuing mining, forestry and other permits,” Jokowi said in a press briefing on Thursday. The move comes at a time when the government is trying to overhaul and offer more convenience in business licensing and permit issuance to lure investors, largely through the Job Creation Law. Jokowi said the government offered the opportunity for the public, including social and religious organizations like Islamic boarding schools and farmers’ groups, to use the land and team up with experienced companies. “Indonesia is open to credible investors who have a good track record and reputation and a commitment to helping people prosper and preserve the environment,” said the President. © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Or continue login with Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.