The group fear the mining activities will damage the forests and eventually lead to natural disasters, such as floods and landslides. Dozens of Taniwel indigenous people in West Seram regency, Maluku, took to the streets on Monday to demand the authorities revoke the mining operation permit (IUP) granted to marble mining company PT Gunung Makmur Indah. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. The group fear the mining activities will damage the forests and eventually lead to natural disasters, such as floods and landslides. ozens of Taniwel indigenous people in West Seram regency, Maluku, took to the streets on Monday to demand the authorities revoke the mining operation permit (IUP) granted to marble mining company PT Gunung Makmur Indah. The permit will reportedly allow the company to "explore" around 2,400 hectares of land in Taniwel district, which is considered by the indigenous group as their ulayat (collectively owned) land. The group -- which held two separate protests in front of the Maluku Regional Legislative Council building and the Maluku administration's office on Monday -- said they never granted permission for any parties to conduct what they called environmentally harmful activities on their ulayat land, and thus regarded the permit issuance as "legally flawed". “We demand the Maluku administration respect the rights and sovereignty of Taniwel indigenous people, who firmly reject any exploitation of their collectively owned property in Taniwel district,” said the protest coordinator, Reimon Nauwe. He further cited Article 18 of the 1945 Constitution, which stipulates that the state should recognize and respect indigenous people’s traditional rights. The protesters also urged the councilors to respect the Taniwel people’s wishes and, therefore, demanded that the provincial administration comply with their request. Read also: The last forest, the last indigenous peoples and COVID-19 © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Or continue login with Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.