Nickel, copper, aluminum among affected metals: Analysts. The prices of metals such as nickel, copper and aluminum are predicted to decrease slightly in the coming months due to COVID-19 lockdowns in China, potentially ending the year-long price rally of these major Indonesian export commodities, analysts say. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. Nickel, copper, aluminum among affected metals: Analysts. he prices of metals such as nickel, copper and aluminum are predicted to decrease slightly in the coming months due to COVID-19 lockdowns in China, potentially ending the year-long price rally of these major Indonesian export commodities, analysts say. But despite the cooling, prices would remain higher than pre-pandemic levels, buoyed by strong global demand, low global-inventory levels, supply disruptions due to bad weather in major mining countries South Africa and Australia and western sanctions against fellow major metal-miner Russia. "Commodities prices will tend to decrease, although they will not fall to pre-pandemic levels and this will provide a fairly strong margin for mining companies, especially nickel, until year-end," said RHB Sekuritas mining analyst Fauzan Luthfi Djamal on Monday. He said supply constraints have become a major theme causing a spike across commodity sectors, including nickel, copper and aluminum, given the rapid recovery of demand in the post-pandemic period, which has not been met with a proportional increase in output. Indonesia's mineral benchmark price (HMA) for nickel, aluminum and gold in April hit US$35,995, $3,483 and $1,940 per dry metric ton (dmt), respectively, an all-time high since the reference was first introduced in 2017. Copper and zinc prices also recorded an all-time high at $10,124 and $3,831 per dmt in the same month. Read also: Indonesia imports, exports hit all-time high in March Ahmad Zuhdi Dwi Kusuma, an economist at state-owned Bank Mandiri, predicted metal prices to correct in the second quarter of this year as investor appetite moved away from commodities and towards the US dollar, after the US Federal Reserve increased its benchmark rate by 50 basis points (bps) on May 4. Both analysts underlined that metal price would be greatly influenced by changes in China's metal demand and developments in the Russia-Ukraine war. China's factory activity contracted at a steeper pace in April as widespread COVID-19 lockdowns halted industrial production and disrupted supply chains, provoking fears of a sharp economic slowdown in the second quarter that will weigh on global growth. The official Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI) fell to 47.4 in April from 49.5 in March, the lowest since February 2020, China’s National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) said on April 20. Copper prices have remained elevated relative to the weakness in China's PMIs. China produces about half of the global refined copper and is the world's largest importer of the metal. Benchmark copper prices at the London Metal Exchange (LME) ended at $9,769 per ton on April 30, down 8.5 percent from the record closing high of $10,674 on March 4. “Metal prices are still high, but they’ve been decreasing since mid-April,” said RHB’s Fauzan. Read also: Indonesia ranks third in ASEAN on manufacturing PMI uptick Ferdy Hasiman, a mining researcher at Jakarta-based Alpha Research Database, said that increasing metal prices, including those of gold and nickel, were expected to boost mining companies’ profits in the first quarter. Nickel producer PT Vale Indonesia, for example, saw a significant increase in profits despite declining production in the first quarter. “High commodity prices provide momentum for mining companies such as PT Aneka Tambang and PT Merdeka Copper Gold to improve their companies’ performance,” said Ferdy on May 6. In the January-March period, Vale Indonesia booked $235.08 million in revenue, rising 13.8 percent year-on-year (yoy) from $206.55 million, despite having a 9 percent annual decline in nickel matte production. The company produced 13,827 tons of nickel matte in the first quarter. The nickel mining company’s cost of revenue declined 8 percent yoy to $142.35 million, while its net profit nearly doubled to $67.64 million from $33.69 million. Mandiri’s Zuhdi said that many corporations in the mining sector were still cautious about price changes moving forward, though he noted that some have slowly increased their production target amid increasing prices. Publicly listed base-metal producer PT Kapuas Prima Coal (ZINC) is among the mining companies planning to increase production of lead and zinc concentrates amid high-selling prices. ZINC president director Evelyne Kioe said that if zinc prices could stay in the range of $3,500 per ton, it could contribute significantly to the company’s profits. On the other hand, fluctuations in commodity prices would also affect production costs. “We hope that the global economic and political conditions will recover and be more conducive so that business activities can run well again,” she said in a statement on March 21. © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.