State-owned mining holding company MIND ID is working to secure a loan as one of the options to support its purchase of a 14 percent stake in Indonesia’s largest nickel mining company, Vale Indonesia. State-owned mining holding company MIND ID is working to secure a loan as one of the options to support its purchase of a 14 percent stake in Indonesia’s largest nickel mining company, PT Vale Indonesia. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. State-owned mining holding company MIND ID is working to secure a loan as one of the options to support its purchase of a 14 percent stake in Indonesia’s largest nickel mining company, Vale Indonesia. tate-owned mining holding company MIND ID is working to secure a loan as one of the options to support its purchase of a 14 percent stake in Indonesia’s largest nickel mining company, PT Vale Indonesia. MIND ID finance director Akhmad Fazri said the company was looking for a suitable funding structure to finance the acquisition and other needs, including debt restructuring and capital expenditure for companies under the holding. He did not deny reports that the company was pursuing external loans amounting to $2 billion. “We’re still considering [external loans]. We shall see the vibes from the lenders. If it’s good, we’ll follow up,” he said on Monday, as reported by Bloomberg Technoz on Tuesday. Akhmad did not elaborate on how much of the company debt would be restructured. Read also: MIND ID to become largest single shareholder in Vale Indonesia for $300m Nevertheless, he explained that MIND ID would still try to rely on internal cash to buy the Vale Indonesia stake but that that would depend on the dividend payment to the government. “The SOEs Ministry has a dividend target from this SOE [MIND ID]. We are still looking at this. If the government demands [only] a small dividend, [MIND ID] could use internal cash,” Akhmad said. © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Or continue login with Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.