State-owned mining holding company MIND ID is expected to acquire a 14 percent stake in Indonesia’s largest nickel miner, Vale Indonesia, by year-end in a move to strengthen Indonesia’s hold on domestic mineral resources. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. tate-owned mining holding company MIND ID is expected to acquire a 14 percent stake in Indonesia’s largest nickel miner, Vale Indonesia, by year-end in a move to strengthen Indonesia’s hold on domestic mineral resources. Energy and Mineral Resources Minister Arifin Tasrif told reporters on Friday that the deal, which involves business-to-business (B2B) negotiations regarding the divestiture requirement and operational issues, was entering its final stage. He said he expected the agreement to be finalized this year. The stake to be acquired is up from the previously planned 11 percent. If signed, the agreement brings an end to an almost year-long negotiation between the parties involved. “In principle, Vale [Canada] has agreed to let go of its shares,” Arifin said in Jakarta, without elaborating on Vale Indonesia’s divestment scheme or whether MIND ID would assume control of the nickel miner’s assets and finances. “This joint management scheme must consider each company’s plans and capabilities. Future plans will be agreed on by the management through B2B negotiations.” Currently, Vale Canada Ltd, which is a subsidiary of Brazilian mining company Vale, and Japan-based Sumitomo Metal Mining Co. Ltd. own 43.79 and 15.03 percent of Vale Indonesia, respectively, while MIND ID owns 20 percent, Vale Japan Ltd 0.54 percent and the investing public owns the remaining 20.64 percent. The plan for MIND ID to acquire a larger stake in Vale is seen as part of the government’s strategy to accelerate the development of the downstream nickel industry in the country. However, in the negotiations, shareholders of Vale Indonesia were reportedly tussling over who would have operation control of the nickel mining company and get to consolidate it with their financial statements after the divestiture. The offering price of the shares to be divested has yet to be decided. Dilo Seno Widagdo, director of MIND ID portfolio and business development, said on June 13 that he suggested it would be close to the market price, but a discount would apply to some of the shares to be divested. Based on Government Regulation No. 77/2014, the shares that Vale Indonesia released to the public in 2014 can be counted toward the divestiture requirement. © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.