MIND ID is looking at the possibility of pursuing relinquishment over unmet contractual commitments as a means to accelerate the divestiture of Vale Indonesia amid stalled negotiations. State-owned mining holding company MIND ID says it is determined to take control of nickel mining company PT Vale Indonesia on the basis of the firm’s unfulfilled investment commitment, regardless of currently stalled negotiations. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. MIND ID is looking at the possibility of pursuing relinquishment over unmet contractual commitments as a means to accelerate the divestiture of Vale Indonesia amid stalled negotiations. tate-owned mining holding company MIND ID says it is determined to take control of nickel mining company PT Vale Indonesia on the basis of the firm’s unfulfilled investment commitment, regardless of currently stalled negotiations. MIND ID president director Hendi Prio Santoso said on Tuesday that Vale Indonesia could be mandated to relinquish its working area because it had failed to fulfill the investment commitments stipulated in a contract of work signed in 2014. “If [Vale’s] development commitments are not fulfilled in accordance with the contract of work, it is necessary to [process] relinquishment in the areas related to the projects,” he told lawmakers of House Commission VII, which oversees energy and mineral resources. Hendi added that President Joko “Jokowi” Widodo had asked his aides in a meeting on Feb. 5 for MIND ID to take over 51 percent of Vale Indonesia’s shares, excluding public shares. In the months since, the government has been negotiating the divestiture with the nickel miner’s shareholders, but has made little progress. Vale Indonesia shareholders are reportedly haggling over who will have operational control of the firm and how to consolidate their financial statements after the divestiture, according to Energy and Mineral Resources Ministry. The firm did not immediately respond to The Jakarta Post’s request for comment. Read also: SOEs Minister maintains nickel miner Vale must relinquish more stake to RI Among the reasons underpinning the urgency for speeding up the divestiture, according to Hendi, is the delayed US$2 billion nickel smelter project in Sorowako, South Sulawesi, the production capacity of which the firm is contractually obliged to expand by 25 percent. But Vale Indonesia had “missed the target twice”, he said. Hendi also questioned the firm’s decision to change the partnership agreement and engineering design for the $4.5 billion Pomalaa nickel project in Central Sulawesi. He said Vale Indonesia had requested a call option, meaning that the firm would not invest at the beginning of the project. Instead, it wanted an option to purchase 30 percent of the shares once the investment was made, “which indicates that Vale Indonesia has not really showed a commitment to invest” in the country, Hendi said. “In our opinion, this makes the economic calculations uncertain [...]. The added value is vague to us,” he added. The energy ministry had asked Vale Indonesia to submit offering documents and an investment bid as per the 2020 ministerial regulation, Hendi continued, but parent company Toronto-based Vale Base Metals had yet to do so. “In accordance with the mandate we received from the government, we are determined to consolidate and become the controlling shareholder of Vale Indonesia,” he said. Read also: Vale shareholders tussle over control amid divestiture Separately, the Office of the Coordinating Maritime Affairs and Investment Minister explained that the potential relinquishment of Vale Indonesia was caused by the company’s “failure to fulfill its investment commitments and targets”. Hendi underlined that MIND ID was determined to revise provisions in the shareholder agreement and investor rights agreement, including the provisions for block voting. MIND ID was determined to revise the provisions in the shareholder and investor rights agreements, including the provision on block voting, he said, as these had the potential to hinder Vale Indonesia’s future role in downstream projects. © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.