The government had made the deal a perquisite for extending Vale’s mining permits in the country. State-owned mining holding company MIND ID will be the largest single shareholder in nickel miner PT Vale Indonesia, following an agreement signed on Monday, as the government moves to tighten its grip on domestic mineral resources. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. The government had made the deal a perquisite for extending Vale’s mining permits in the country. tate-owned mining holding company MIND ID will be the largest single shareholder in nickel miner PT Vale Indonesia, following an agreement signed on Monday, as the government moves to tighten its grip on domestic mineral resources. The approximately US$300 million agreement will raise MIND ID’s stake in Vale Indonesia from 20 percent to 34 percent. Mind ID is purchasing the shares from Vale Canada, a unit of Vale Base Metals, and Japan’s Sumitomo Metal Mining. Following the purchase, Vale Canada will hold 33.9 percent of the venture and Sumitomo 11.5 percent, down from 43.79 percent and 15.03 percent, respectively. The remainder of the shares are publicly traded. The government had made the deal a perquisite for extending Vale’s mining permits in the country. Coordinating Maritime Affairs and Investment Minister Luhut Binsar Pandjaitan said on Monday that he had asked the relevant ministries to quickly complete all the permits that had not been issued to Vale. “Especially the IUPK [Special Mining Business License]. [It needs] to be issued immediately, within this week,” he told reporters in Jakarta. MIND ID will conclude the transaction in June. The SOE will also hold the right to appoint the CEO and human resources director of Vale Indonesia. © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Or continue login with Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.