The Constitutional Court (MK) has revoked the special mining permit (IUPK) guarantee for the work of private-sector mineral and coal mine contract holders. State-owned miners are poised to gain an even bigger presence in Indonesia’s mining industry after the Constitutional Court revoked last month an important guarantee for private mining giants. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. The Constitutional Court (MK) has revoked the special mining permit (IUPK) guarantee for the work of private-sector mineral and coal mine contract holders. tate-owned miners are poised to gain an even bigger presence in Indonesia’s mining industry after the Constitutional Court revoked last month an important guarantee for private mining giants. The guarantee entailed extending the giants’ contracts to operate within highly lucrative special mining sites for up to 20 years, provided they met certain requirements, including undergoing a process to rename the contracts as special mining permits (IUPK). The guarantee is enshrined in Article 169A of the 2020 Mining Law. The court ruled on Oct. 27 that the article’s wording be changed from “guaranteed” into “could be given”, arguing that such an advantage for private companies “goes against the spirit of state control” over natural resources, a principle enshrined in the 1945 Constitution. “The MK’s decision is a turning point in strengthening SOEs and ROEs [region-owned enterprises] in getting priority over the special mining permits,” said mining law expert Ahmad Redi of Tarumanagara University. However, the greater legal protection also meant that regulators faced the potential challenge of corruption, rent seeking and weak governance within SOEs and ROEs, he said. Lawmakers introduced the guarantee last year to provide legal certainty for big privately owned mineral miners and coal miners, whose contracts were nearing expiry, starting with coal giant PT Arutmin Indonesia in 2020. © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Or continue login with Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.