Indika Energy vice president director Azis Armand spoke to The Jakarta Post’s Divya Karyza on Feb. 15 about his views on Indonesia’s electric vehicle (EV) ecosystem and the company’s struggle in cutting its coal income to 50 percent by 2025 amid global pressure on the coal industry. Aem>As part of its efforts to shift its business focus away from coal, Indonesia’s Indika Energy is in negotiations to retire its part-owned Cirebon 1 coal-fired power plant in West Java and is building an electric motorcycle. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. Indika Energy vice president director Azis Armand spoke to The Jakarta Post’s Divya Karyza on Feb. 15 about his views on Indonesia’s electric vehicle (EV) ecosystem and the company’s struggle in cutting its coal income to 50 percent by 2025 amid global pressure on the coal industry. em>As part of its efforts to shift its business focus away from coal, Indonesia’s Indika Energy is in negotiations to retire its part-owned Cirebon 1 coal-fired power plant in West Java and is building an electric motorcycle. Indika Energy vice president director Azis Armand spoke to The Jakarta Post’s Divya Karyza on Feb. 15 about his views on Indonesia’s electric vehicle (EV) ecosystem and the company’s struggle in cutting its coal income to 50 percent by 2025 amid global pressure on the coal industry. Question: What are Indika Energy’s programs to stay competitive in the national and global market this year? Answer: Indika Energy is a holding company operating in several sectors. The asset portfolio defines the company. In the last five years, we have aimed to diversify our business portfolio, after previously focusing mainly on coal. We are considering many aspects, including coal price uncertainty and energy transition trends. [We aim] to change our investment criteria to anticipate the ever-evolving market to stay relevant. We aim to invest in sectors with a lower carbon footprint than coal, the largest share of which goes to gold mining, followed by logistics, forest plantations, EV and renewable energy. What is the latest on your plans to cooperate with Air Products Chemical Inc. to develop a coal-to-dimethyl ether project? We are still undergoing a feasibility study. We’re looking to examine what the end product is going to look like, the price, and who’s going to be the off-taker, considering this is going to be a huge investment. The ecosystem of these coal gasification products, which requires sizable investment, needs to be clear first. The market itself is already there, but we need to make sure our products would be sold at a certain price. What is Indika Energy’s role in Indonesia’s coal retirement efforts? As part of the consortium PT Cirebon Electric Power, we’re discussing the terms and conditions to retire the Cirebon 1 coal-fired power plant with the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and the Indonesia Investment Authority (INA). What are we going to do with the power plant? There are a lot of stakeholders in the negotiation, including state-owned electricity utility PLN, and then there is the financing aspect. Multinational banks and commercial banks are included in the financing scheme. But it’s important to underline that Indika Energy as an equity holder in the Cirebon 1 power plant has invested in the project, and thus, there is an expected return from the project. How is the development of the Indika Energy EV ecosystem coming along? We began by focusing on product development, which led to the launch of Alva One, where we aim to cater to the electric two-wheeler market. The growth potential of the two-wheeler segment is still huge. What aspects are we looking to explore? Accessibility and affordability, both of which depend largely on the product price. From Alva One, we want to learn more about what specifications users are looking for to improve the products’ adoption rate. From there, we will participate in building the ecosystem, such as the charging station as well as battery and after-sales services, including financing. This participation does not necessarily mean ownership. We collaborate with stakeholders with different specific competencies in these fields. How does Indika Energy view Indonesia’s odds of becoming an EV hub in Southeast Asia? We have a strong user base. If we’re talking about the economics of scale, it makes sense for the country to become the automotive sector’s hub. But there are other aspects: technology and human capital. Is our human capital capable of manufacturing these EVs? From Indika Energy’s own business, we see an increasing number of employees from vocational schools working at our assembly plants. It is still challenging to find workers who have an educational background in manufacturing, while workers who previously worked in the auto industry need re-skilling. Moreover, when we’re designing our electric two-wheelers, we have specifications for the two-wheeler’s parts, but there has yet to be enough demand. Another aspect is metal reserves. Manufacturing an EV requires sizable nickel and lithium reserves, among other metals, and not many countries have these reserves. So the need for integrating metal mining and EV manufacturing facilities is critical. A majority of Australian lithium mining companies, for instance, have an off-take agreement with Chinese EV producers. Whether Indonesia will succeed in becoming an EV hub also depends on whether we can secure the supply of these metals. Lastly, battery technology: We need to look closely into how much investment is allocated by companies and the government for research and development. So far, it is not much compared to China and India. © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.