The holding company wants to focus on long-term business planning, while aluminum producer Inalum focuses on operations. State-owned mining holding company MIND ID plans to spin off its aluminum operations into PT Indonesia Asahan Aluminium (Inalum) Operating, allowing the holding company to focus on long-term business planning and the subsidiary to go public. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. The holding company wants to focus on long-term business planning, while aluminum producer Inalum focuses on operations. tate-owned mining holding company MIND ID plans to spin off its aluminum operations into PT Indonesia Asahan Aluminium (Inalum) Operating, allowing the holding company to focus on long-term business planning and the subsidiary to go public. Ogi Prastomiyono, director of strategic services at MIND ID, said the separation would make it easier for MIND ID to make new subsidiaries, dominate strategic commodity reserves, establish downstream industries and attract funding, among other long-term plans. The holding company aimed to execute the spinoff by this year, so that Inalum Operating could conduct an initial public offering (IPO) by the end of 2022. MIND ID has yet to determine the amount of Inalum Operating stakes to be sold at the IPO. “MIND ID could focus more on strategic planning, while operation would be only in its subsidiaries,” Ogi told lawmakers on Monday during a hearing in the House of Representatives. Read also: State mining holding company rebrands as MIND ID MIND ID said it would have "no liabilities or potential liabitlies, whether legal, tax or financial," after the spinoff, implying the liabilities would be passed on to Inalum Operating. Ogi described focusing MIND ID on strategic planning as the "final form" of the government's mining holding company formation plan under Government Regulation No. 47/2017. At least two state-owned holding companies – one for cement, one for fertilizer – have adopted a similar approach. © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Or continue login with Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.