Major religious organizations in the country have signaled that they will turn down the government’s offer to grant them mining concessions, citing the industry’s potentially harmful environmental effects. Major religious organizations in the country have signaled that they will turn down the government’s offer to grant them mining concessions, citing the industry’s potentially harmful environmental effects. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. Major religious organizations in the country have signaled that they will turn down the government’s offer to grant them mining concessions, citing the industry’s potentially harmful environmental effects. ajor religious organizations in the country have signaled that they will turn down the government’s offer to grant them mining concessions, citing the industry’s potentially harmful environmental effects. The groups were responding to a controversial government regulation (PP) issued by President Joko “Jokowi” Widodo that allows religious organizations to manage state-owned mines, an opportunity seized immediately by the country’s largest Muslim organization, Nahdlatul Ulama (NU). Abdul Mu’ti, the general secretary of the country’s other major Islamic group, Muhammadiyah, said the organization would carefully consider the opportunity as mining operations could have negative impacts on the public and Indonesia as a whole. “Muhammadiyah will not be hasty and will measure our own abilities so that the mining management does not cause any problems for the organization, the people or the nation,” Abdul said on social media on Monday, adding that the organization needed to be “extra careful”. He told The Jakarta Post two days later, on Wednesday, that no internal discussion on whether to apply for a mining permit had taken place. Read also: NU mining permits slammed as pork barrel politics Meanwhile, former Muhammadiyah chairman Din Syamsuddin proposed that the group should flatly reject the offer because it would bring more harm than good. © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Or continue login with Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.