Observers claim President Joko "Jokowi" Widodo is paying back Nahdlatul Ulama for its political support with coal mining permits. The move by President Joko “Jokowi” Widodo’s administration to grant state-owned mine concessions to Indonesia’s largest Muslim organization Nahdlatul Ulama (NU) is facing mounting scrutiny, with observers describing it as pork barrel politics and a reward for the group’s support for the President. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. Observers claim President Joko "Jokowi" Widodo is paying back Nahdlatul Ulama for its political support with coal mining permits. he move by President Joko “Jokowi” Widodo’s administration to grant state-owned mine concessions to Indonesia’s largest Muslim organization Nahdlatul Ulama (NU) is facing mounting scrutiny, with observers describing it as pork barrel politics and a reward for the group’s support for the President. During an event in Bekasi, West Java, on Sunday, Investment Minister Bahlil Lahadalia said the ministry was in the process of issuing a mining operation permit (IUP) for the NU central executive board (PBNU). “After discussions with several ministers and receiving permission from President Jokowi, we decided to give NU a mining concession that holds fairly large coal reserves, so that NU can optimize its [development],” he said. Bahlil’s announcement came only a few days after Jokowi signed a government regulation (PP) allowing religious organizations to manage state-owned mines. The regulation stipulates that the issuance of special mining license areas (WIUPK) can be expedited for business entities owned by religious organizations “in order to improve people’s welfare.” To get the permit, the PP requires the religious organization to have a controlling stake in a business entity. The license cannot also be transferred without the approval of the energy and mineral resources minister. NU chairman Yahya Cholil Staquf lauded the government’s decision to allow religious organizations to hold mining permits. “It’s a bold move and an important step forward as it could help better distribute the benefits of mining activities to the public,” he said in a statement on Monday, thanking Jokowi for the policy. © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Or continue login with Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.