President Joko “Jokowi” Widodo visited the gold and copper mines of PT Freeport Indonesia in Mimika, Papua, on Thursday, where he inaugurated the company’s first 5G mining technology. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. resident Joko “Jokowi” Widodo visited the gold and copper mines of PT Freeport Indonesia in Mimika, Papua, on Thursday, where he inaugurated the company’s first 5G mining technology. Jokowi is the second Indonesian president to visit Freeport – the local arm of United States mining giant Freeport-McMoran Inc. – which has been majority-owned by state-owned mining holding company MIND ID since 2018. Speaking at the event, Jokowi hailed what he called Southeast Asia’s first 5G smart mining system, a technology run by Freeport in collaboration with state-owned telecommunications firm Telkomsel. "[5G technology] supports automation and remote control and also improves workers' safety and the productivity of Freeport Indonesia," he said. Jokowi said he was happy to see that the majority of the employees working for Freeport were Indonesian, specifically Papuan. The day before, in a gathering of Freeport employees attended by Jokowi, Freeport-McMoran CEO Richard Adkerson said expats had been largely phased out of Freeport Indonesia. “Today we have a workforce that approaches 30,000 people. Ninety-eight percent of our employees are Indonesian, over 40 percent are Papuans,” Adkerson said. This, he said, was a huge departure from 33 years ago when he first came to Papua, at which time all the underground miners were Filipinos as there was a lack of expertise among Indonesians. Also on Wednesday, Jokowi noted the importance of Freeport to Mimika regency and Papua as a whole. “Sixty-eight percent of Mimika’s gross regional product [PDRB] is from Freeport. [...] Thirty-four percent of Papua’s PDRB is from Freeport. That’s very huge,” he said. The President later advised Freeport Indonesia president director Tony Wenas to take care in managing the company as it could directly affect Papua as a whole. The company’s Grasberg mine in Mimika has one of the world’s largest reserves of gold and copper in the world. A new law passed in June by the House of Representatives will place Mimika under the jurisdiction of Central Papua province. Also in attendance at the 5G launch were State-Owned Enterprises Minister Erick Thohir, Investment Minister Bahlil Lahadalia and First Lady Iriana. Jokowi’s visit to the Freeport mine was part of a larger tour of the Papua region. On Wednesday morning, the President inaugurated the Papua Football Academy in Jayapura. The football academy was also established by Freeport. Last year, Freeport began constructing a new copper smelter in Gresik, East Java, that is slated to begin operations in 2024. © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.