Critics say the three candidates for the post of vice president only scratched the surface of environmental and governance issues in Indonesia’s mineral-processing industry during Sunday’s debate. Critics say the most recent debate between the three candidates running for vice president in next month’s election only scratched the surface of environmental and governance issues in Indonesia’s mineral-processing industry. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. Critics say the three candidates for the post of vice president only scratched the surface of environmental and governance issues in Indonesia’s mineral-processing industry during Sunday’s debate. Critics say the most recent debate between the three candidates running for vice president in next month’s election only scratched the surface of environmental and governance issues in Indonesia’s mineral-processing industry. Indonesia, which produces 37.9 percent of the world’s nickel, is moving up the nickel value chain by refining the material for use in steelmaking and battery manufacturing, but activists point to the environmental impacts of the downstream development drive. Southeast Asia’s largest economy has seen the establishment of massive industrial parks, such as the Indonesia Weda Bay Industrial Park (IWIP) project in Central Halmahera, North Maluku, to process nickel ore. Greenpeace country director for Indonesia Leonard Simanjuntak said Gibran Rakabuming Raka’s defense of the downstream policy, by stressing the need to strike a balance between industrial development and environmental sustainability, was too “normative”. “We need to push downstream industrial development but maintain a balance with the environment,” Gibran said during Sunday’s debate when talking about reducing the carbon footprint. He expressed support for the carbon tax, and carbon capture and storage (CCS) policies the incumbent government is working on. Read also: Muhaimin, Mahfud join forces to blast Jokowi’s policies © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Or continue login with Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.