In a series of meetings, the two countries expressed their hope to expand collaboration on everything from knowledge transfer in the mining industry, to purchasing Indonesian military equipment and the opening of embassies within the two countries. The Indonesian government is exploring cooperation with Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) in several areas, including mining investment and military advancement. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. In a series of meetings, the two countries expressed their hope to expand collaboration on everything from knowledge transfer in the mining industry, to purchasing Indonesian military equipment and the opening of embassies within the two countries. he Indonesian government is exploring cooperation with Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) in several areas, including mining investment and military advancement. The Office of the Coordinating Maritime Affairs and Investment Minister said it had sent a letter of intent (LoI) expressing the government’s interest. The government said mining cooperation with Congo would include knowledge transfer and capacity building to improve the DRC’s capabilities in the sector. The DRC is known to host numerous major deposits of diamonds, gold, copper, cobalt, tin, tantalum and lithium, according to the German Federal Government’s Federal Institute for Geosciences and Natural Resources. Cobalt and lithium are two important minerals to produce EV batteries alongside nickel, of which Indonesia is the largest producer. On military cooperation, the state-owned weapons producer Pindad would supply the DRC with uniforms, light weapons, armored vehicle and air transportation equipment. Coordinating Maritime Affairs and Investment Minister Luhut Pandjaitan said on his official Instagram account on Tuesday that the government had also proposed for Indonesia, the DRC and Brazil to form a coalition on forestry and carbon trading. © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Or continue login with Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.