The government is considering investment from South Africa and Europe, aside from China, after United States-based Air Products abandoned plans to build downstream coal industry facilities. The government says firms in South Africa and Europe could be potential partners for the country to continue building downstream coal facilities after United States-based chemical company Air Products withdrew from plans to develop the industry in Indonesia. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. The government is considering investment from South Africa and Europe, aside from China, after United States-based Air Products abandoned plans to build downstream coal industry facilities. he government says firms in South Africa and Europe could be potential partners for the country to continue building downstream coal facilities after United States-based chemical company Air Products withdrew from plans to develop the industry in Indonesia. Aside from Chinese companies, firms based in South Africa and European countries could pick up where the US company left off, according to the government. “There are many potential partners, but it is up to each business-to-business (B2B) process,” Coordinating Economic Minister Airlangga Hartarto told The Jakarta Post during an interview in his office on Thursday. “The technology can come from other places. So, it is not just Chinese technology, not really, but whoever [has the potential],” he added. Read also: RI to find new partners after Air Products backs out from coal downstream project Prior to its exit, Air Products had been working on gasification projects, one to convert coal into dimethyl ether (DME) and another to convert it into ethanol. The former involved state-owned mining firm PT Bukit Asam (PTBA) and state-owned oil and gas giant Pertamina, while the latter involved PT Kaltim Prima Coal (KPC) and PT Arutmin Indonesia, both subsidiaries of PT Bumi Resources, jointly controlled by the Bakrie Group and Salim Group. © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Or continue login with Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.