Indonesia to find new partner to replace Air Products, which decided to withdraw recently, hoping to continue the coal downstream project nevertheless. United States-based chemical industry company Air Products decided to pull out from all coal downstream projects in Indonesia, which include converting coal to dimethyl ether (DME) and coal-to-ethanol gasification projects, Energy and Mineral Resources (ESDM) Ministry said on Thursday. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. Indonesia to find new partner to replace Air Products, which decided to withdraw recently, hoping to continue the coal downstream project nevertheless. nited States-based chemical industry company Air Products decided to pull out from all coal downstream projects in Indonesia, which include converting coal to dimethyl ether (DME) and coal-to-ethanol gasification projects, Energy and Mineral Resources (ESDM) Ministry said on Thursday. The DME project was initially done in tandem with state-owned miner PT Bukit Asam (PTBA) and state-run oil and gas giant Pertamina, and the ethanol project was done with PT Kaltim Prima Coal (KPC) and PT Arutmin Indonesia, both of which are subsidiaries of PT Bumi Resources, jointly controlled by the Bakrie Group and Salim. “Yes, [Air Products] is pulling out from all projects,” Idris F Sihite, the ministry’s acting director general on mineral and coal said, as quoted from Kontan. Read also: Coal gasification not economically viable: Analysts Both coal gasification projects are part of Indonesia’s greater vision to build up its industries via downstream and reduce reliance on raw material exports. The government has classified the two as national strategic project (PSN) to signify their importance to the country. The government hopes the coal gasification project can help replace the costly liquified petroleum gas (LPG) import in the country, which is used as cooking gas. The PTBA’s DME project was initially located in Tanjung Enim, South Sumatra, designed to produce 1.4 million tonnes of DME from 6 million tonnes coal annually. It is projected to require US$2.1 billion of investment. © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Or continue login with Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.