MIND ID seeks another 11% or more in nickel mining firm. Shareholders of PT Vale Indonesia are reportedly tussling over who will have operation control of the publicly listed nickel mining company and get to consolidate it with their financial statements after an impending divestiture that is required to extend its operations in Indonesia. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. MIND ID seeks another 11% or more in nickel mining firm. hareholders of PT Vale Indonesia are reportedly tussling over who will have operation control of the publicly listed nickel mining company and get to consolidate it with their financial statements after an impending divestiture that is required to extend its operations in Indonesia. Speaking in front of lawmakers on Tuesday, Energy and Mineral Resources Minister Arifin Tasrif revealed that Vale Canada Limited and state-owned PT Mineral Industri Indonesia (MIND ID), as the two biggest shareholders in the company, are each seeking those rights. “MIND ID also wants the rights to operational control and financial consolidation,” Arifin said, before stopping mid-sentence and going on to the next point of his presentation. The slide, meanwhile, suggested that, without those two rights, the state-owned enterprise (SOE) would not “earn a profit and may incur a loss”. Vale has operated in Indonesia since 1968, initially under the contract of work (KK) licenses granted to companies at the time. Under today’s prevailing Mining Law, however, mining firms must switch to special mining permits (IUPK) should they wish to prolong their operations. To gain clearance for an IUPK, at least 51 percent of Vale Indonesia’s shares must be held by Indonesian entities or traded on the Indonesia Stock Exchange. Vale Canada Limited currently holds 43.79 percent of the company’s shares, followed by MIND ID with 20 percent, Sumitomo Metal Mining Co. with 15.03 percent and Vale Japan Limited with 0.54, while the remaining 20.64 percent is traded on the Jakarta bourse, according to Vale’s data. That means the foreign entities must release a total of around 11 percent of Vale Indonesia to comply with the rules. MIND ID is poised to acquire those shares, and a representative of the SOE told reporters on Tuesday that “negotiations are currently ongoing” and that the plan was to take over more than the minimum 11 percent. “We will proceed in accordance with the government’s instructions,” said MIND ID portfolio and business development director Dilo Seno Widagdo. Ahmad Zuhdi Dwi Kusuma, an industry analyst from state-owned lender Bank Mandiri, said it was understandable that Vale Canada Limited was fighting for the rights, as letting them go would be a time-consuming process and could affect its medium- to long-term performance. “The government must be open to the option of sharing control with Vale [Canada Limited] for the sake of avoiding major changes in the structure and operational targets of [Vale Indonesia],” Ahmad told The Jakarta Post on Wednesday. How it would play out, however, depended on the divestment amount, explained Ahmad. If, at the end of the day, MIND ID held more than 51 percent, Vale Canada Limited should pass the baton of control to the SOE. “If the stakes were still balanced [between Vale Canada Limited and MIND ID], it would be hard. It should be decided through the general meeting of shareholders,” replied Ahmad when asked whether the government would force Vale Canada Limited out of the two rights. Djoko Widajatno, executive director of the Indonesia Mining Association (IMA), told the Post on Wednesday that Vale Canada Limited was fighting for the rights because it had to shoulder the responsibility bestowed on it by the government and shareholders. “[After the divestiture], most profit will go to the government. Therefore, operational and financial control is the key to cost management,” said Djoko. Djoko suggested the government host focus group discussions to find a way out of the pickle, on top of maintaining communication with the businesspeople involved. Vale Indonesia director Bernardus Irmanto told the Post on Wednesday that “divestiture is a shareholders’ matter” and that he could not divulge details about the ongoing negotiations without their consent. However, he pointed out that the rights of operational control and financial consolidation were issues being discussed in the divestiture negotiations between Vale Canada Limited, MIND ID and Sumitomo. The offering price of the shares to be divested is yet to be decided. Dilo suggested it would be around the market price, but a discount would apply to some of the stake to be divested. According to Government Regulation No. 77 of 2014, the shares Vale released to the public in 2014 can be counted toward the divestiture requirement. Yet some lawmakers have opined that the government should pursue more than 11 percent. © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.