State-owned Enterprises (SOEs) Minister Erick Thohir has maintained that nickel miner Vale must relinquish a larger stake to Indonesia that includes the country’s state-owned miner holding MIND ID. State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs) Minister Erick Thohir has maintained his stance that nickel miner Vale must relinquish its larger stake to Indonesia that includes the country’s state-owned miner holding MIND ID. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. State-owned Enterprises (SOEs) Minister Erick Thohir has maintained that nickel miner Vale must relinquish a larger stake to Indonesia that includes the country’s state-owned miner holding MIND ID. tate-Owned Enterprises (SOEs) Minister Erick Thohir has maintained his stance that nickel miner Vale must relinquish its larger stake to Indonesia that includes the country’s state-owned miner holding MIND ID. Erick told reporters on Friday that PT Vale Indonesia must follow a similar path to PT Freeport Indonesia, which agreed to relinquish the majority of its stake, allowing the Indonesian side to control a 51 percent stake in the company. “Requesting Vale Canada to relinquish [its stake] does not mean Indonesia dislikes foreign investment, but this is the government’s policy to develop the downstream industry. [...] This is something normal,” Erick said. Read also: Analysis: MIND ID to gain majority stake at Vale to drive Nickel downstreaming Currently, Brazil-based Vale Canada Ltd. and Japan-based Sumitomo Metal Mining Co. Ltd. hold 43.79 and 15.03 percent stakes in Vale Indonesia, respectively, followed by the investing public that owns 20.49 percent, according to a report from Tenggara Strategics, a think-tank affiliated with The Jakarta Post, published on July 14. Meanwhile, MIND ID currently owns the rest with a 20 percent stake and plans to purchase another 14 percent, the report also shows. The plan for MIND ID to acquire a larger stake in Vale was the government’s latest attempt to accelerate downstream nickel industry development in the country. © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Or continue login with Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.