The eight-member Clean Indonesia Coalition argued that government efforts to pass the regulation would “all go to waste” should the court nullify the mining law, deliberations of which were still ongoing in Jakarta. Awatchdog coalition has called for the government to delay passing a mining government regulation (PP) until after the Constitutional Court (MK) makes a key decision on the 2020 Mining Law, which lays a legal basis for the regulation. Please Update your browser Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
                    Just click on the icons to get to the download page. The eight-member Clean Indonesia Coalition argued that government efforts to pass the regulation would “all go to waste” should the court nullify the mining law, deliberations of which were still ongoing in Jakarta. watchdog coalition has called for the government to delay passing a mining government regulation (PP) until after the Constitutional Court (MK) makes a key decision on the 2020 Mining Law, which lays a legal basis for the regulation. The eight-member Clean Indonesia Coalition argued that the government's efforts to pass the regulation would “all go to waste” should the court nullify the mining law, deliberations of which are still ongoing in Jakarta. “They focus on economic infrastructure but ignore democratic infrastructure. They did not even consider the court process when drafting the regulation,” said coalition spokesman Arip “Yogi” Yogiawan, who also works for the Indonesian Legal Aid Foundation (YLBHI), on Tuesday. The government regulation on mining activity is the nearest to completion among three similar regulations being drafted by the Energy and Mineral Resources (ESDM) Ministry in realizing the recently passed, controversial 2020 Coal and Mineral Mining Law. Read also: Civil society brings new Mining Law to court over transparency issues Energy Ministry mining director general Ridwan Djamalludin first spoke about the three regulations on Aug. 27, by which time the regulation on mining activity was being discussed between ministries. The others were still being discussed internally. “The energy minister wants these done before the end of the year,” he told lawmakers at a House of Representatives hearing in Jakarta. The regulation on mining activity addresses, among others issues, giant coal miners whose mining permits — legally called “contracts” (PKP2B) — are slated to expire between November 2020 and April 2025, depending on the individual company. © 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen. Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.