We must maintain acceptance to operate through shared value at the local level in order 
to reinvest in our existing properties, and invest in new ventures, thereby increasing 
the production of metals needed for a healthy and prosperous world. Our sustainability 
performance is critical to meeting society’s responsible sourcing objectives so that we can 
place our products, which power societal advancement, into the global marketplace today and 
into the future.
To supply essential metals to current and future generations, we are guided by our stated 
business objectives, principles and policies, and we work continuously to improve our systems. 
Throughout this report, we review the progress we are making on key issues, including those 
emerging, which affect our company and our stakeholders. We aim to continuously improve 
our sustainability performance and are eager to engage stakeholders on this ongoing journey.
PRODUCING RESPONSIBLY 
AND POWERING SOCIETY
Copper output for the Cerro 
Verde mining complex ranked 
third overall in the industry 
during 2017, according to 
Wood Mackenzie.  
6
Freeport-McMoRan
7
2017 Working Toward Sustainable Development Report
PRINCIPLES OF BUSINESS 
CONDUCT
In February 2017, we launched the updated Freeport-McMoRan 
Principles of Business Conduct (PBC), which highlight our 
core values of Safety, Respect, Integrity, Excellence and 
Commitment, and help guide how we do business, from 
top-level management to entry-level employees. The PBC 
sets forth a variety of business principles, from promoting 
a safe workplace to complying with laws and avoiding 
conflicts of interest to developing positive relationships 
with local communities. Freeport-McMoRan and its 
affiliates have established multiple mechanisms for 
employees and others to report concerns regarding 
potential violations of the PBC. One of the primary 
mechanisms is the Freeport-McMoRan Compliance Line, 
a phone system managed by an independent third party 
that allows for anonymous reporting. In addition, the 
company offers a web-based reporting system, also 
operated by a third party, along with an option for direct 
email to our Compliance Department. These accessible 
channels complement our long-established community 
and human rights grievance systems. By providing 
multiple reporting mechanisms, including anonymous 
communications, our workforce is encouraged to Speak Up 
if something violates, or could possibly violate, the PBC.
In addition, the Freeport-McMoRan Supplier Code of 
Conduct sets forth our expectations for our supply chain 
partners in areas such as safety, respect for human rights, 
anti-corruption, community and environment. These policies, 
along with external standards and initiatives, form the 
overall framework that guides our sustainability programs. 
Supporting this framework are internal governance and 
management systems that detail how we operate.
GOVERNANCE
The Freeport-McMoRan Board of Directors (Board) as 
a whole is responsible for risk oversight, with reviews 
being conducted by the relevant Board committees that 
regularly report to the full Board. In its risk oversight role, 
the Board reviews, evaluates and discusses with members 
of management whether the risk management processes 
designed and implemented by management are adequate 
in identifying, assessing, managing and mitigating material 
risks facing the company. 
Our non-executive chairman regularly meets and discusses 
with our chief executive officer a variety of matters including 
business strategies, opportunities, key challenges and risks 
facing the company, as well as management’s risk mitigation 
strategies. Senior management attends regularly scheduled 
Board meetings where they present on various strategic 
matters involving our operations and are available to address 
any questions or concerns raised by the Board. The Board 
oversees the strategic direction of the company, and in doing 
so, considers the potential rewards and risks of our business 
opportunities and challenges, and monitors the development 
and management of risks that impact our strategic goals.
The Board has five standing committees: Audit, Compensation, 
Nominating and Corporate Governance, Corporate 
Responsibility, and Executive, each of which is composed 
entirely of independent directors. The Corporate 
Responsibility Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its 
oversight responsibilities with respect to the management 
of risks associated with our safety and health policies 
and programs, environmental policy and implementation 
programs, human rights policy and practices, community 
health programs and related public health and medical 
matters, community policy and practices, governmental and 
stakeholder relations and social investment and sustainable 
development programs, programs to evaluate and address 
climate-related impacts and opportunities, charitable 
contributions, and political activity and spending practices.
During 2017, the Corporate Responsibility Committee 
received various reports and considered numerous items with 
a particular focus on safety, which included reviewing the root 
causes of fatal accidents, corrective actions implemented 
to prevent future accidents and overall improvement in our 
safety procedures and practices. In addition, the Corporate 
Responsibility Committee reviewed climate-related 
disclosures, community medical and public health services, 
political activity and spending practices, the safety reporting 
processes at our operations, our human rights program 
and the settlement with the U.S. Department of Justice and 
Navajo Nation regarding cleanup funding for former uranium 
mines on Navajo tribal lands. The Corporate Responsibility 
Committee also amended the company’s Human Rights 
Policy and adopted the company’s UK Modern Slavery Act 
Statement. The Corporate Responsibility Committee reports 
to our Board, which provides oversight on all matters.
Sustainability programs are fundamental to our pursuit of 
investments in mine expansions to grow our production profile. 
Pre-stripping activities have commenced at the Lone Star oxide 
project near the Safford operation in eastern Arizona.
OUR APPROACH
8
Freeport-McMoRan
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 
LEADERSHIP TEAM
The company’s Sustainable Development Leadership Team 
considers both imminent matters and emerging trends while 
providing strategic guidance for our programs. The team 
is sponsored by our Executive Vice President and Chief 
Administrative Officer and is led by our Vice President of 
Environmental Services and Sustainable Development. Our 
Chief Operating Officer, business unit presidents, as well as 
Vice President-level or senior staff from the safety, supply 
chain, security, human resources, sales, legal/compliance, and 
land and water functions comprise the team. 
During the year, the team reviewed and addressed key issues 
and projects including:
•	 An updated Sustainable Development Leadership Team 
Charter with a focus on core issues directly related to our 
sustainability objectives of maintaining local acceptance 
and market access
•	 Our updated Human Rights Policy, which includes an 
explicit commitment to the UN Guiding Principles 
•	 Supply chain due diligence framework drivers and 
approaches
•	 Emerging global initiatives and commodity-specific 
programs to create “sustainability standards” to 
demonstrate responsible production 
•	 Individual business-to-business due diligence activities 
related to responsible product sourcing
•	 Common topics raised during engagements with the 
socially responsible investment community, ESG* analyst 
firms and other financial stakeholders 
•	 Project scoping and initial results of the Cerro Verde (Peru) 
Human Rights Impact Assessment
•	 Development and status of the company’s initiatives to 
recruit and advance career opportunities for women in 
the workforce
•	 Multi-year pathway to enhanced disclosures on climate-
related impacts and opportunities, including considering 
recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
•	 Draft ICMM performance expectations to be implemented 
and assured at the site level
•	 Key observations related to independent assurance of our 
sustainability programs, including implementation of the 
ICMM Sustainable Development Framework
* 
Environmental, social and governance
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
We inform, consult and involve communities and partners 
in order to develop and improve our policies, programs, 
projects and initiatives. We formally engage with community 
stakeholders across our portfolio, as well as economic 
partners and development institutions, government, 
regulators, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), 
community leaders and general members of the public. 
Annually, hundreds of entities are engaged via community 
foundations, formal grievance systems, community liaison 
officer interactions, workshops, participatory group panels, 
town hall meetings and specific surveys. Engagement also 
occurs through regulatory consultation processes with 
governmental entities and community groups, including 
with indigenous peoples. 
Consistent dialogue allows us to work alongside 
community members to avoid and mitigate impacts, and 
capture opportunities to implement projects that drive 
sustainability. Capacity building through engagement is 
critical to assisting communities to be resilient to downturns 
in commodity cycles and their planning for eventual closure 
of our operations.
In 2017, we engaged with over 70 investor organizations, 
sustainability analyst firms, banking institutions and NGOs 
regarding our programs and performance. Many of these 
organizations included multiple members or affiliations 
thus expanding the reach of our communications. We also 
work closely with our commodity sales departments to 
engage both downstream customers and international 
governmental agencies on sustainability programs and to 
address specific environmental and social areas of interest 
that could affect access to markets for our various products 
within the value chain. 
El Abra regularly engages with indigenous communities near 
its operations, including through participatory environmental 
monitoring of the Salar de Ascotán watershed.
9
2017 Working Toward Sustainable Development Report
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP
Environmental and social performance of mining operations 
and of the metals we produce continue to be of increasing 
interest to members within the value chain, from customers 
to commodity associations to regulatory institutions. We 
currently see the most interest coming from European entities 
and regulators. This trend presents an opportunity to engage 
on the vital importance of our products for social progress as 
well as on the programs that guide our responsible operating 
practices. Members of our Product Stewardship team 
engage downstream customers and commodity and trade 
associations, as well as international governmental agencies 
on operational and product-specific sustainability topics. 
Our mining operations that produce metals subsequently 
sold into European markets and our metals processing 
facilities, including our cobalt refinery in Finland, are receiving 
increased due diligence from consumer-facing businesses and 
governmental agencies.
Our Product Stewardship team is led by our Vice President 
of Environmental Services and Sustainable Development and 
is coordinated with our global product sales and legal teams 
with support from multiple technical experts. 
During 2017, the team addressed topics including:
•	 Multiple commodity, business association and international 
governmental organizations’ emerging responsible 
sourcing frameworks
•	 Specific customer due diligence requests for information 
and/or site audits related to sustainability policies, 
programs and performance 
•	 Input into development of a draft Organisation for 
Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Portal 
for Supply Chain Risk Information that will include the 
metals we produce
•	 Updates to the company’s Sustainable Development Risk 
Register assessment process that includes additional topics 
of interest to value chain partners
•	 Participation in commodity-specific life cycle inventory 
(LCI) updates and life cycle assessments (LCA) for our 
products – quantifying the environmental impacts of our 
products considering inputs such as water, energy and raw 
materials, as well as releases to water, land and air
•	 Emerging nongovernmental sustainability certification, 
benchmarking and reporting initiatives 
•	 Compliance with global chemical legislation (e.g., the 
European Union’s Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation 
and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) program, U.S. Toxic 
Substances Control Act (TSCA), and developing programs 
such as Korea REACH) 
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 
RISK REGISTER
The Freeport-McMoRan Sustainable Development 
framework is based on operation-specific factors and 
influences, including regional context, type and stage of 
operation and social setting. Essential to this framework is 
the Sustainable Development Risk Register process, which 
prioritizes the most significant risks that could have negative 
consequences to our business and our stakeholders in areas 
including health and safety, respect for human rights, the 
environment, community stability and economic impacts. 
The Sustainable Development Department and senior, 
multi-disciplinary experts coordinate with operations 
personnel to ensure prioritization processes are consistent 
with corporate procedures and provide associated 
guidance. The company’s Sustainable Development Risk 
Register process is being updated in 2018 to include 
additional topics, such as climate-related impacts, with 
more extensive categorical definitions for risk evaluation. 
This update is intended to reflect due diligence priorities of 
downstream consumer-facing companies in our value chain, 
including members of the Responsible Minerals Initiative.
Sustainability focus areas identified through this process are 
reviewed by our Sustainable Development Leadership Team 
and communicated to our Board of Directors. Our current 
areas of focus are described on the following pages and 
throughout this report.
Copper rod manufactured at our Miami, Arizona rod plant is 
prepared for shipment. Our company supplies more than 40 
percent of the copper consumed in the United States.
10
Freeport-McMoRan
BIODIVERSITY
We own, lease and operate large land holdings, some of 
which are in and adjacent to areas of high biodiversity 
value. Our operations are managed to identify potential 
impacts and, where practicable, implement actions that 
conserve and enhance biodiversity, including during 
reclamation activities. (p. 31) 
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT 
AND DEVELOPMENT
Our social and economic development programs are 
designed to be responsive to issues raised by communities, 
including vulnerable groups and indigenous peoples, and 
to help us maintain good relations and avoid disruptions 
of operations. Nevertheless, social and political instability 
in the areas of our operations may adversely impact our 
operations. (p. 21)
CORRUPTION
As a U.S.-based mining company with substantial assets 
located outside of the U.S., our business may be adversely 
affected by issues related to corruption. We maintain a robust 
anti-corruption training and reporting program in addition 
to our Principles of Business Conduct training. Any violation 
of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-
corruption laws of jurisdictions in which we operate could 
result in significant criminal or civil fines and penalties, 
litigation and loss of operating licenses or permits. (p. 17)
CLIMATE-RELATED IMPACTS 
AND OPPORTUNITIES
Carbon-based energy is a significant input to our 
operations and increased regulation of greenhouse gas 
emissions may directly or indirectly increase our costs. 
In 2017, approximately 80 percent of our global purchased 
power was from low carbon sources. We continue 
to model multiple carbon tax scenarios to understand 
the range of potential increases to our operating costs. 
The potential physical impacts of climate change on 
our operations and supporting infrastructure are highly 
uncertain and episodic; however we are reviewing potential 
adaptation measures. (p. 25)
HUMAN RIGHTS
Respect for human rights is a core value and we continue 
to integrate the UN Guiding Principles on Business and 
Human Rights into our business systems while advancing 
human rights impact assessments. Our operations may be 
adversely affected by security risks stemming from events 
including political instability, labor strikes and civil strife. 
The Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights 
serve as guidelines for our security and human rights 
programs. (p. 19)
SUSTAINABILTY FOCUS AREAS
Collaboration with local stakeholders 
on projects to improve water quality 
and availability is core to Cerro 
Verde’s social investment priorities. 
In addition to potable water facilities 
and the recently commissioned 
wastewater treatment plant for the 
Arequipa Region, Cerro Verde provides 
financial and technical support to 
over 6,500 local farmers to improve 
irrigation systems for prevention of 
excess water losses.
11
2017 Working Toward Sustainable Development Report
LABOR RELATIONS
Thirty-nine percent of our global employee base was 
covered by collective labor agreements at year-end 
2017. We engage openly with our employees and union 
leadership to successfully negotiate and uphold labor 
agreements, recognizing that prolonged strikes or other 
work stoppages at our operations can adversely affect our 
business, our workforce and regional stakeholders. (p. 14)
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP
Our product stewardship team engages downstream 
customers, industry associations and international 
governmental agencies on operational and product-specific 
sustainability issues. We believe that proactive engagement 
on product stewardship issues is mandatory to address 
risks associated with market access. (p. 9)
SAFETY AND HEALTH
The safety of our global workforce is our highest priority. 
During 2017, we sadly incurred five fatalities and fell short 
of our total recordable incident rate target. Through 
implementation of our Fatal Risk Management Program, we 
aim to eliminate fatalities by identifying and implementing 
critical controls and delivering multi-faceted training and 
enhanced communications throughout our workforce. (p. 15)
TAILINGS
Managing the volume of tailings, waste rock and leach 
material produced in our mining operations presents 
significant environmental, safety and engineering 
challenges and risks. We maintain large leach pads and 
tailings impoundments containing viscous material that 
must be engineered, constructed and monitored to assure 
structural stability and avoid leakages. Through our Tailings 
Stewardship Program, we implement control systems, 
including independent expert input and reviews, to address 
and mitigate these risks. (p. 29)
WATER SUPPLY AND 
MANAGEMENT
We recognize the importance of efficiently managing 
water resources at mining operations in both arid and 
wet regions. While all of our mining operations require 
secure and reliable quantities of water for mining and ore 
processing, most of our operations are located in arid 
regions of North America and South America. We maintain 
a global water management program designed to increase 
water use efficiency in our processes while minimizing the 
use of fresh water. (p. 28)
Since 2006, FMC has rebuilt 
over 350 haul trucks at its 
global operations, resulting 
in capital avoidance and like-
new productivity. We use 
real-time systems to monitor 
equipment health, which enables 
achievement of the highest 
availability and utilization 
of our haul trucks. A global 
benchmarking of this metric 
indicates that our performance 
demonstrates a 10 percent savings 
in the number of trucks needed.
12
Freeport-McMoRan
BUSINESS ETHICS
Provide comprehensive training on our Principles of 
Business Conduct, including annual certification of 
management-level employees
√
All employees were trained in 2017, including 
a 100% certification rate of management-level 
employeesa
With our online training module, annually train 90% of 
selected employees who interact with, or have the potential 
to interact with, government officials on anti-corruption 
laws, regulations and company policies and procedures
√
In 2017, 98% of the employees selected to 
participate in the online training completed
the course
WORKFORCE
Increase the percentage of women in our workforce, 
including representation in managerial roles, to 15%
X
Women comprise 12% of our employee population 
and hold 11% of all managerial positions 
SAFETY & HEALTH
Incur zero fatalities
X
Sadly, five work-related fatalities occurred at 
our operations in 2017
Meet company-wide total recordable incident rate 
(TRIR) of 0.63
X
At 0.76 for 2017, we did not meet our target TRIR
HUMAN RIGHTS
Incur zero gross human rights violationsb at our 
operations caused by employees and contractors
√
We did not incur any gross human rights 
violations at our operations caused by employees 
or contractors
COMMUNITIES
Invest (in aggregate) 1% of the average of the previous 
three years’ annual mining operations revenue (as 
reported in Freeport-McMoRan’s audited consolidated 
financial statements) in community programs, including 
in-kind support and administration
 √
Approximately $153 million was invested in 
community programs across our operations 
(99% of our $154 million target)
ENVIRONMENT
Incur zero significant environmental events (rating of three 
or higher on our Sustainable Development Risk Register)
√
We did not incur any significant environmental 
events. We had 11 spills or releases that were 
reportable to national agencies based on 
applicable regulationsc
Incur zero penalties in amounts exceeding $100,000
X 
We incurred $317,000 in penalties paid as a result 
of Notice of Violations (NOVs) at Cerro Verde in 
2006 and 2008 
Note: All performance targets are annually recurring.
a. PTFI management-level training and certification was launched in the fourth quarter of 2017 and final results will be reported in 2018.
b. 
There is no uniform definition of gross human rights violations under international law; however, the United Nations Office of the 
High Commissioner report: The Corporate Responsibility to Respect Human Rights – An Interpretive Guide, provides guidance on 
identifying such types of violations.
c. Excludes PTFI where 35 reportable spills occurred, including 21 from pipeline sabotage.
PERFORMANCE TARGETS
LOCAL HIRING AND SKILLS 
DEVELOPMENT
Successfully recruiting, retaining, developing and advancing 
talented employees from diverse backgrounds is key to 
achieving our business objectives. We offer rewarding careers 
as part of a team that, every day and everywhere, embraces 
our core values of Safety, Respect, Integrity, Excellence 
and Commitment. 
Hiring talent from regions where we operate incorporates 
local cultures and knowledge into our business systems while 
supporting local economies. The company maintains tailored 
training programs to facilitate this objective. 
For example, our training partnership program with the 
San Carlos Apache Tribe in Arizona is designed to increase 
the skills and employability of Apache students so they 
are prepared to compete for skilled jobs. Training includes 
both life and work skills. Technical training ranges from 
heavy equipment operations and maintenance to industrial 
maintenance and electrical applications. Through 2017, over 
1,000 students have entered the program and approximately 
50 percent have graduated. The company maintains a robust 
onboarding process for new hires and we currently employ 
over 340 Native Americans, an increase of over 70 percent 
from just six years prior.
At our largest operation, PTFI, located in the remote province 
of Papua, Indonesia, we prioritize the hiring of indigenous 
Papuans. Approximately 98 percent of PTFI employees are 
Indonesian, 41 percent of whom are indigenous Papuans (up 
from 36 percent in 2016). In 2017, we introduced the Papuan 
Sustainable Human Capital Development program to increase 
opportunities for indigenous Papuans – particularly those 
from the seven neighboring tribes – to join the workforce. 
The program includes a three-week course to enhance 
participants’ life and work skills by teaching teamwork, 
behavioral safety and workplace compliance expectations. 
Since its inception, approximately 120 Papuans have 
completed the program and over 90 have been hired by 
contractors to work throughout PTFI operations. 
In addition, our regional technical training programs 
prepare community members for careers in mining, with 
no obligation to join our company. The Nemangkawi Mining 
Institute (NMI) in Papua has placed nearly 2,700 apprentices 
into permanent employee and contractor positions at 
PTFI, 90 percent of whom are indigenous Papuans. In 2017, 
NMI was enhanced to address skill sets needed for a fully 
underground mining operation.
Employee Cornelia Ratu receives instruction on an advanced 
remote mining simulator. PTFI’s underground mining 
automation program maintains worker safety and increases 
productivity.
At year-end 2017
EMPLOYEES
Approximately 25,200
CONTRACTORS
Approximately 28,000
	 44%	
North America
	 28%	

Indonesia
	 23%	
South America
	
5%	
Europe/Other
	 75%	
Indonesia
	 14%	

North America
	
9%	
South America
	
2%	
Europe/Other
WORKFORCE
13
2017 Working Toward Sustainable Development Report
DIVERSITY 
We operate in regions of varying ethnic, religious and cultural 
backgrounds and are generally the largest employer in local 
communities where we operate. The diverse backgrounds, 
experiences and perspectives within our workforce are an 
asset. We prohibit discrimination and harassment, and our 
Principles of Business Conduct and Human Rights Policy 
require that all employees treat everyone in and around our 
operations with dignity and respect.
Seeking ways to recruit and foster career development 
for women in our company continues to be important, as 
women historically have been underrepresented in the 
mining sector. Women serve in key management roles within 
our organization, including our Chief Financial Officer and 
two members of our Board, while an additional 280 women 
hold manager-level or higher positions. We continue to 
work toward our target of increasing women in our global 
workforce as well as women in managerial roles to a minimum 
of 15 percent. In late 2017, we developed a survey for exempt-
level female employees in North America to gauge actual 
and perceived barriers to advancement, achieving a strong 
72 percent response rate. Key themes raised from the survey 
results included work/life balance, lack of clarity related to 
career pathways and historical or unconscious bias.
Discrimination can take a number of forms and can be based 
on various characteristics, such as disability, age, race, 
ethnicity, religion and gender. In 2017, of the reports made 
through the Freeport-McMoRan Compliance Line, 32 included 
allegations of some form of discriminatory or harassing 
conduct, none of which was substantiated. 
LABOR RELATIONS
As of December 31, 2017, our workforce consisted of 
approximately 25,200 employees and 28,000 contractors. 
We work cooperatively with 14 unions in eight locations 
worldwide. Thirty-nine percent of our employee population 
is covered by collective bargaining agreements, with 15 
percent of employees covered by agreements that will be 
renegotiated during 2018, including the collective labor 
agreement (CLA) at Cerro Verde in Peru. Our policy is 
to ensure fair treatment and working conditions for all 
employees, including rights to freedom of association and 
collective bargaining. Employees have the right to exercise 
freedom of association at all of our operations.
At PTFI, export constraints early in 2017 created the necessity 
to implement efficiency measures to reflect significantly 
reduced production rates. These measures included 
reductions to the employee workforce beginning with 
certain expatriates and contractors as well as introduction 
of a voluntary separation package offering a separate 
furlough program. In addition, large-scale absenteeism 
led to the voluntary resignation of more than 3,200 direct 
employees and 600 contractors. This occurred after PTFI 
made significant communications efforts to encourage those 
employees to return to work. 
Senior Mineralogist Veronica Alejandro analyzes mineral 
samples with University of Arizona professor and graduate 
student Isabel Barton at the Freeport-McMoRan Technology 
Center in Tucson, Arizona. 
Europe/Other	
Indonesia	
South America	
North America	
Company-wide
        73%	
71%	
66%	
0%	
39%
PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES UNDER COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS
By Operating Region
At year-end 2017
PTFI’s CLA was renegotiated with two unions in a spirit of 
collaboration and without threat of operational interruptions. 
The agreement covers the period October 1, 2017 to 
September 30, 2019. 
14
Freeport-McMoRan
Our Occupational Health and Safety Management System 
(OHSMS) is the framework under which we prioritize and 
manage risk, as well as address compliance obligations. In 
late 2016, Freeport-McMoRan received corporate group 
certification to the internationally recognized Occupational 
Health and Safety Assessment (OHSAS) 18001 standard. 
The certification requires third-party registrar site-level 
verification that we operate in a manner consistent with 
OHSAS and with a goal to prevent fatalities and reduce 
incidents. Maintaining the certification process entails annual 
site audits conducted by either our corporate OHSMS team or 
a third-party registrar. In 2017, a total of 23 combined systems 
audits were conducted.
Our health and safety performance and associated 
reporting encompasses our direct employees as well as 
contractors. The Freeport-McMoRan Contractor Health 
and Safety Manual defines the minimum expectations and 
requirements for contractors working at our operations. As 
with our employees, site-specific health and safety training 
is conducted with contractors and tailored to task-specific 
hazards identified and critical control implementation.
We measure our safety performance through established 
benchmarks, including our company-wide TRIR. In 2017, 
our TRIR (including contractors) was 0.76 per 200,000 
man-hours worked, missing our 0.63 target. We worked 
117.5 million hours in 2017 compared to 153.1 million hours 
in the prior year, and we recorded a total of 443 reportable 
injuries in 2017 compared to 492 in 2016. 
In 2017, senior leaders within the company, with the assistance of 
external experts, performed an evaluation of our OHSMS. This 
effort included a detailed review of daily activities conducted 
by front-line supervisors with the aim of reducing administrative 
tasks that could impede Safe Production leadership efforts in 
the field. Specific surveys and “Day in the Life of Studies” were 
conducted with supervisors at operations in North America. 
The application of remote-controlled equipment allows 
operators to remain at a safe distance. Operator Pete Rosales 
remotely controls a skid steer loader at the Garfield pit in 
Morenci, Arizona.
TRIR = [(Fatalities + Lost Time Incidents + Restricted Duty Incidents + Medical Treatment) x 200,000] / Total Hours Worked
	
2013	
2014	
2015	
2016	
2017
Workplace Fatalities	
35	
7	
3	
6	
5
Total Recordable Incident Rate	
0.74	
0.56	
0.56	
0.64	
0.76
Occupational Illness Cases 	
41	
46	
43	
26	
38
SAFETY AND HEALTH SUMMARY DATA
Including Contractors
SAFETY AND HEALTH
2017 WORKPLACE FATALITIES
OPERATION
EVENT DESCRIPTION
PTFI
Papua, Indonesia
After blasting activities in the Big Gossan underground mine, an employee was exposed to temporarily 
trapped blasting gases, resulting in his death. 
An extreme, localized rainfall event created a large material flow that impacted a powerhouse facility in the 
highlands, fatally injuring a contractor working in the area.
Cerro Verde
Arequipa, Peru
A mine operations supervisor was fatally injured after a ground failure event on a double bench caused a 
boulder to strike the operator cabin of an electric shovel.
After removing a guard surrounding a tail pulley on a conveyor feed system, a contractor was fatally injured 
by entanglement.
Atlantic Copper 
Huelva, Spain
An employee walked into an empty kress hauler bay while a kress hauler operator was backing into the bay 
and the employee was fatally struck.
15
2017 Working Toward Sustainable Development Report
16
Freeport-McMoRan
Action plans resulting from these studies are planned for 
implementation in 2018. Key aspects of these action plans 
include re-establishing expectations regarding roles and 
responsibilities of supervisors, individual needs assessments 
and development plans. We also initiated a similar review 
of the role of the health and safety professionals to ensure 
these dedicated resources are effective in assisting the 
workforce in our daily Safe Production efforts.
Following the 2017 piloting of our Fatal Risk Management 
field tools at PTFI, we initiated training at our North America 
operations and will continue with our company-wide rollout 
in 2018. The second phase of the process focuses on critical 
control verification to ensure use and effectiveness for high-
risk tasks, to give immediate feedback for improvement 
and to utilize the information 
collected to strengthen our 
overall management of fatal 
risks. In addition, the process 
to streamline health and 
safety policies to ensure basic 
understanding and simplicity 
of use in the field is underway 
and expected to be completed 
in 2018.
OCCUPATIONAL 
HEALTH
Freeport-McMoRan operations 
maintain comprehensive 
occupational health programs 
to assess the risk of exposure 
to occupational health hazards 
and identify controls for those 
risks. We have expanded our 
corporate industrial hygiene 
team to provide better strategic 
guidance and support. Our 
Field Guide for Occupational Health and Industrial Hygiene 
defines occupational exposure limits, standards and 
practices that apply globally.
Freeport-McMoRan continued the expansion of medical 
monitoring procedures in 2017 to ensure that employees 
are fit for duty, to look for early indications of occupational 
health impairment and to provide opportunities for 
early intervention. We continued to expand our fatality 
prevention program to review exposures to carcinogens and 
other significant health hazards in addition to traditional 
safety hazards. These efforts are expected to lead to a 
stronger focus on critical controls related to dust controls, 
ventilation systems and chemical process monitoring. 
Thirty-eight occupational illness cases were reported at our 
operations during 2017.
Because of Freeport-McMoRan’s longstanding commitment 
to safety, the company was in a unique position to assist the 
National Mining Association in developing the new safety 
certification system for the mining industry. The framework 
emphasizes accident prevention anchored in organizational 
leadership, management and assurance. The CORE safety 
framework guidelines are publicly available as a resource 
for mining companies’ safety management programs. 
Freeport-McMoRan proudly achieved CORESafety 
Certification in 2017.
Aircraft Operation
Blasting
Confined Spaces
Contact with 
Electricity
Contact with Molten 
Material
Drowning
Entanglement and 
Crushing
Exposure to Hazardous 
Substances-Acute
Exposure to Hazardous 
Substances-Chronic
Fall from Heights
Falling Objects
Fire
Ground Failure
Lifting Operations
Personnel Hoisting
Rail Collision
Rail Impact on Person
Uncontrolled Release 
of Energy
Underground 
Hazardous 
Atmosphere
Underground Inrush
Underground Rock Fall
Vehicle Collision or 
Rollover
Vehicle Impact on 
Person
FCXtraordinary highlights the dedication of our workforce to Safe 
Production and collaboration. Members of the Climax Health 
and Safety Team were recognized by Mike Kendrick, President-
Climax Moly (far right) after taking extraordinary measures to 
ensure a contract logistics driver received full assistance after 
suffering from acute mountain sickness.
FATAL RISK MANAGEMENT
FATAL RISKS
17
2017 Working Toward Sustainable Development Report
We are committed to the highest level of ethical and legal 
conduct. The Freeport-McMoRan Principles of Business 
Conduct (PBC) are a commitment to integrity and define 
the expected behavior of all employees and our Board. We 
conduct comprehensive training on our PBC, including annual 
certification of management-level employees. This process 
consists of computer-based training, as well as a signed 
certification that the employee understands the PBC and is 
not aware of cases of non-compliance. 
ANTI-CORRUPTION
Corruption is sometimes widespread in local government 
systems and cultures near our operations. We do not tolerate 
the offering or payment of bribes, kickbacks or other similar 
payments to any person or organization or government 
official to secure advantages for 
our business. Likewise, we do not 
accept any of these payments. 
Our Anti-Corruption Policy and 
Guidelines require compliance 
with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt 
Practices Act of 1977 (FCPA) and 
other relevant anti-corruption laws, 
including local laws.
The company deployed a new anti-
corruption online training module in 
2017. The training is mandatory for 
annual completion by select groups 
of employees utilizing a risk-based 
approach. For example, senior-level 
employees who may interact with 
government officials are required 
to complete the training. The 
online training does not replace 
our existing classroom training 
programs; rather, it has been 
developed to supplement existing 
systems and extend the reach of 
the company’s overall compliance efforts. 
During 2017, in-person classroom training was conducted 
at El Abra, Cerro Verde, our offices in Santiago, Chile, and 
at exploration sites in Asia, Eastern Europe and Africa. 
Training also was conducted for support functions, 
including the Accounting, Communications, Environmental 
Services, Global Supply Chain, Human Resources, 
Legal, and Sales and Marketing departments along with 
senior management personnel responsible for approval 
procedures and internal controls. 
In recognition of the potential legal liability that could result 
from actions of our business partners under the FCPA and 
other laws, the company has implemented its online due 
diligence platform, the Freeport Compliance eXchange 
(FCeX). FCeX is a survey-based software platform designed 
to assess risk in the areas of anti-corruption, international 
trade and human rights. FCeX has enhanced the company’s 
ability to identify, assess and mitigate compliance risks.
Annually, Freeport-McMoRan performs company-wide audits 
with the assistance of our internal audit firm to assess risk 
and plan for the following year’s audit strategy. Formal fraud 
risk assessments have been implemented at Atlantic Copper, 
El Abra, Cerro Verde, PTFI and our corporate offices, and 
mapped with business controls which are tested and reviewed 
annually. The fraud risk assessments consist of more than 
100 risk scenarios across more than 15 process areas, such 
as Asset Management, Purchasing, Payables and Financial 
Reporting. All of these risk assessments include corruption as 
a risk factor. 
INFORMATION 
AND 
REPORTING 
Among other reporting 
mechanisms, Freeport-
McMoRan maintains a 
Compliance Line to provide 
guidance and assistance 
to workforce members 
with any questions or 
concerns related to our PBC, 
policies or procedures. To 
encourage our workforce to 
report potential violations 
of business conduct, our 
Compliance Line allows 
anonymous reporting. 
During 2017, 235 reports 
were made through 
the Freeport-McMoRan 
Compliance Line relating 
to various topics, including 
employee workplace conduct, environment, health and 
safety, protecting company assets and conflicts of interest. 
All reports are investigated and, if substantiated, appropriate 
disciplinary action is taken, up to and including termination 
of employment. 
BUSINESS ETHICS
SPEAK 
UP
IF SOMETHING 
DOESN’T 
FEEL RIGHT 
REPORT IT
TRANSPARENCY OF 
GOVERNMENT PAYMENTS
Freeport-McMoRan has endorsed and committed to support 
the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) since 
2008. EITI is a global standard to promote transparent and 
accountable management 
of natural resources. The 
initiative is a commitment 
by governments to disclose 
revenues received and by oil, gas and mining companies 
to disclose natural resource payments to governments in 
an annual EITI report. In 
implementing countries, 
governments, extractives 
companies and civil society 
work together in a multi-
stakeholder group forum. 
Freeport-McMoRan 
has significant mining 
operations in Indonesia and 
Peru, both of which are EITI 
implementing countries. 
Senior-level PTFI and Cerro 
Verde personnel actively 
support the in-country 
EITI processes. In 2017, 
Freeport-McMoRan was 
a sponsor at the EITI 
conference on beneficial 
ownership in Jakarta, 
Indonesia, which brought 
together over 400 
delegates from 51 countries.
Freeport-McMoRan publicly discloses its material contracts 
and we support contract transparency in the extractives 
sector. The payments our company makes to host 
governments via taxes, royalties and other obligations 
significantly contribute to national, regional and local 
development. We believe that increased transparency of 
natural resource revenues and payments promotes better 
governance and accountability regarding the distribution 
of natural resource revenues. In addition to our country-
level EITI commitments, our practice is to report annual 
cash payments to governments, including sub-national 
payments, in all regions where we conduct business, as 
presented in the table below.
CASH PAYMENTS TO GOVERNMENTSa
For the year ended	
U.S.	
Chile	
Peru	
Indonesia	
Other	
Total
December 31, 2017 ($ millions)	
	
	
	
	
Countriesb

Corporate Income Taxes, Net of Refunds	
$(151  	
$  5  	
$  50  	
$ 116  	
$   9  	
$    29
Withholding Taxes on Foreign Dividends 	
-	
8	
-	
105	
-	
113
Employee Payroll Taxesc	
288	
9	
43	
57	
26	
423
Dividends	
-	
-	
-	
135	
-	
135
Royalties and Net Severance Taxes 	
56	
2	
35	
151	
-	
244
Property Taxes 	
103	
-	
-	
21	
2	
126
Other Taxes and Feesd 	
46	
9	
46	
189	
(14	
276
Total 	
$342  	
             $33  	
                $174  	             $774  	
                        $23  	
$1,346  
a. 
This schedule reflects a voluntary effort by Freeport-McMoRan to capture its cash payments to governments (net of refunds).
b. 
Represents cash payments to governments by Freeport-McMoRan’s other business groups that are located outside of the countries where 
Freeport-McMoRan conducts its primary operations.
c. Includes payroll taxes collected on behalf of employees and paid to governments.
d. Includes customs and export duties, as well as withholding tax on foreign services.
  )
  )
Copper concentrate is loaded at Port Amamapare at our Grasberg mining operation in Papua, 
Indonesia. PTFI is one of the largest taxpayers in Indonesia and has contributed over $60 billion 
to the country’s GDP since 1992. 
18
Freeport-McMoRan
19
2017 Working Toward Sustainable Development Report
Respect for human rights is a long-standing commitment of 
our company. Our Human Rights Policy, first established in 
the late 1990s and most recently updated in 2017, requires 
us to conduct business in a manner consistent with the 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the United 
Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights 
(UN Guiding Principles). 
We promote human rights awareness through engagement 
with host governments and local communities, as well as 
by providing training to employees and contractors. We 
protect the confidentiality of anyone who reports suspected 
violations. We conduct our security activities in line with 
the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. Our 
human rights compliance officers oversee compliance and 
training, as well as grievance mechanisms for reporting, 
documenting and investigating allegations made in our areas 
of operation. 
In 2017, we continued to advance the integration of the UN 
Guiding Principles into our business. Activities included: 
•	 Updating our Human Rights Policy to reflect an explicit, 
full commitment to the UN Guiding Principles
•	 Organizing two international-level stakeholder meetings 
to provide updates on our human rights program and 
updates to our Human Rights Impact Assessment (HRIA) 
methodology (e.g., additional emphasis on the value chain) 
•	 Advancing a global grievance review project to test our 
internal and external grievance mechanisms against the 
UN Guiding Principles effectiveness criteria 
•	 Developing the concept for an internal Human Rights 
Working Group to support our implementation of the 
UN Guiding Principles and integration of human rights 
considerations across our business (launched in 2018) 
•	 Continuing regular engagement with the financial 
community, civil society and value chain partners to 
discuss and receive feedback on our human rights 
program
We also continue to engage on the Corporate Human 
Rights Benchmark. Pilot results released in 2017 ranked 
our company 12th overall across multiple sectors for our 
transparency and performance. While we are pleased with 
our relative performance, we are continuing to advance 
site-level HRIAs using a risk-based approach to further 
embed human rights considerations across our business 
and enhance our reporting. 
CERRO VERDE HUMAN RIGHTS 
IMPACT ASSESSMENT (PERU) 
The “dashboard” of human rights topics addressed in the 
Cerro Verde HRIA built on that used for the Corporate 
HRIA, placing additional emphasis on the local/domestic 
value chain. 
Field work included extensive, on-the-ground engagement with 
142 stakeholders in and around our Cerro Verde mine, including 
the city of Arequipa and its surrounding communities. 
Twenty-five percent of those interviewed were women. 
Topics reflected in the dashboard have been mapped against recognized international human rights 
HUMAN RIGHTS IMPACT ASSESSMENT SCOPE “DASHBOARD”
EMPLOYEES
VALUE CHAIN
COMMUNITY
ENVIRONMENT
THIRD PARTIES
Working conditions
Working conditions
Standards of living / 
quality of life
Pollution
Conduct of private 
security forces
Safe and healthy 
working conditions
Safe and healthy 
working conditions
Community health 
and safety
Water security
Conduct of government 
security forces
Discrimination
Discrimination
Economic activity / 
livelihoods
Waste and hazardous 
materials management
Contribution to conflict
Freedom of association 
and collective bargaining
Freedom of association 
and collective bargaining
Minorities and 
indigenous peoples
Increased exposure to 
natural hazards
Presence of artisanal / 
small-scale miners
Child labor
Child labor
Displacement / 
resettlement
Corruption
Privacy
Privacy
Cultural heritage
NGOs and civil 
society groups
Forced and 
compulsory labor
Forced and 
compulsory labor
Children's rights, 
including access to 
education
Judicial system 
(access to remedy)
HUMAN RIGHTS

As with our previous assessments, the Cerro Verde HRIA 
applied the “but for” test in relation to the identification of 
human rights impacts caused by, contributed to or linked to 
Cerro Verde, its activities or its business partners. Alleged 
impacts were included in the assessment even if there was 
uncertainty regarding the supporting facts and/or the 
causative relationship to Cerro Verde. 
Impacts and allegations identified by the Cerro Verde HRIA 
included the following:
•	 Two workplace fatalities in 2017, as well as a broader set 
of medium severity health and safety impacts, reflecting 
the risks associated with activities carried out in the 
mining sector
•	 A high volume of disputed labor sanctions applied to 
more than 1,000 striking workers in 2016 and 2017, with 
more than 700 of these resulting in litigation (subject to 
ongoing judicial process, which has potential uncertain 
consequences of decreasing the court’s capacity) 
•	 A large volume of lower severity impacts to local 
community members during construction and initial 
operation of the wastewater treatment plant system, 
related to noise, vibration, odors and structural damage 
to homes – as well as a small number of more severe 
allegations that these impacts worsened pre-existing health 
conditions of local community members (subject to past 
and ongoing grievance resolution processes)
•	 Localized, temporary dust impacts and contribution to the 
collective generation of traffic-related airborne particulates 
•	 Limited number of very low-impact discharges of untreated 
water from the wastewater treatment plant 
The Cerro Verde HRIA results confirmed that Cerro Verde’s 
existing grievance mechanisms are effective in capturing and 
addressing human rights-related complaints and incidents. 
Nonetheless, the HRIA identified additional actual and 
alleged impacts relating to Cerro Verde and its partners. 
This included, for example, claims 
by an anonymous stakeholder that 
a small number of workers may be 
experiencing serious health impacts 
linked to on-site activity (these claims 
require further investigation). In 
addition, the HRIA included reference 
to the mine’s possible, and in many 
cases, limited contribution to a number 
of collective impacts that may not get 
captured by conventional grievance 
mechanisms (such as dust and water 
security). Furthermore, it provided 
useful insight into broader human 
rights dynamics and stakeholder 
perceptions.
The assessment also suggested 
that Cerro Verde’s ISO 14001 environmental management 
system, OHSAS 18001 health and safety management 
system and application of the Voluntary Principles on 
Security and Human Rights were, with the exception of two 
workplace fatalities, effective in minimizing human rights 
related impacts. Stakeholder feedback also noted “beyond 
compliance” business ethics and a strong social license to 
operate. 
The Cerro Verde team is reviewing the results of the HRIA 
with intentions to develop action plans to address any risks 
and impacts. Due to the uncertainty of the supporting facts 
behind certain allegations and/or the causative relationship 
to Cerro Verde, some action plans will require further 
investigation. Action plans will be embedded within Cerro 
Verde’s sustainable development risk register process to 
support continuous improvement of existing systems and 
processes, and (where necessary) establish new measures to 
investigate, avoid, mitigate and/or remedy human rights risks 
and impacts. 
For more detailed information on the Cerro Verde HRIA and 
our overall human rights program, please refer to the Human 
Rights section of our website at FCX.com.
SECURITY
The Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights serve 
as guidelines for our security 
and human rights programs, 
including interactions with 
host government police and military personnel, as well as 
private security contractors. Our 2017 Annual Report to the 
Voluntary Principles Plenary includes country implementation 
details for Indonesia and Peru, as these countries represent 
our higher risk environments in terms of security and human 
rights. The report includes information on a series of sporadic 
shooting incidents experienced by our PTFI operation in 
Indonesia starting in August 2017. 
EMPLOYEES
INDIVIDUALS 
AT SUPPLIERS/
CONTRACTORS
COMMUNITY
MEMBERS
THIRD-PARTIES
Cerro Verde 
managers
Onsite 
contractors
Mayors
Public 
officials
Cerro Verde 
employees
Offsite 
contractors
Community members 
and representatives
Judicial 
officials
Cerro Verde 
contract workers
Domestic logistics
contractors
Water and farming 
groups
NGOs
Union 
representatives
Domestic suppliers
of goods
Teachers / students / 
doctors
PNP
Domestic cleaning /
 catering contractors
Religious leaders /
organizations
Private security
contractor
Workers within the 
supply chain
Academics
Stakeholder Groups Engaged for the Cerro Verde HRIA
20
Freeport-McMoRan
Mining operations inevitably create economic, social and 
environmental impacts on local communities. Some of these 
impacts may include changes to land use and population 
influx, while others include economic opportunities and 
development in the areas of infrastructure, health and 
education. We engage with potentially and actually affected 
stakeholders and their legitimate representatives throughout 
project lifecycles to build and preserve the relationships and 
trust needed to operate effectively and advance development 
projects. Our Community Policy requires collaboration with 
local communities to minimize and mitigate unavoidable 
adverse impacts and to maximize opportunities to deliver 
value from our business.
Broad, transparent and regular engagement builds our 
understanding of stakeholder interests and concerns, ensures 
communities have an opportunity to provide input into our 
development projects and ongoing operations, promotes 
understanding of our business and ultimately reduces risk to 
our plans. Communication with local stakeholders takes place 
via a number of channels, including formally through open 
houses linked to regulatory processes, informally through 
interactions with our community development representatives 
in the field and through community partnership panels and 
community investment funds or foundations. 
COMMUNITY INVESTMENT
Freeport-McMoRan’s community investment strategy 
addresses high-priority needs and facilitates local capacity 
building with the goal of enabling community sustainability 
post-closure. In partnership with communities and local 
governments, many of our social investment programs align 
with and advance the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 
targets or help mitigate impediments to their realization. 
In addition to direct community investment from operations 
and the Freeport-McMoRan Foundation, we have established 
community trust funds or social funds in the U.S., Chile 
and Indonesia. In the U.S., this includes both Community 
Investment Funds for communities near our operations and a 
Native American Partnership Fund for the tribal communities 
with whom we partner. These funds are typically managed 
by community members who determine the allocation of 
resources to programs that strengthen the foundational 
elements of sustainable communities, including education, 
health, economic development and the environment. 
2017 COMMUNITY INVESTMENT
$153 million
* 
Includes arts, culture, mitigation, stakeholder engagement and 
employee programs such as Matching Gifts and United Way
COMMUNITIES
	 30%	

Community
Trust Funds
	 19%	

Safety, Health 
and Environment
	 19%	

Economic 
Development and 
Infrastructure
	 15%	
Other*
	 14%	

Education and 
Training
	
3%	

Administration
COMMUNITY INVESTMENT                 	
    ADVANCING SDGs
Our social investments 
contribute positively to 
many of the SDGs while 
also mitigating impacts 
that may otherwise impede 
their realization. 

Community Trust Funds

Economic Development and Infrastructure

Education and Training
Safety, Health and Environment
Other (see chart footnote above)
21
2017 Working Toward Sustainable Development Report
22
Freeport-McMoRan
In North America and South America, we have maintained 
investments in local capacity building through training 
for local leaders and technical assistance in developing 
and planning projects. At operating communities in the 
U.S., we further progressed “Leadership for Sustainable 
Communities,” an initiative aimed to guide civic leaders 
through a process to enhance a community’s economic 
and social resilience. The first phase of the program, which 
concluded in 2017, provided training for more than 100 
current and future leaders and resulted in nine new projects 
directly aligned with local sustainability objectives.
During 2017, we maintained our commitment to improving 
science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) 
education opportunities. We are currently in the final year 
of a three-year professional development initiative for 
elementary and middle school math teachers in rural school 
districts. The program is designed to increase teacher 
content knowledge and confidence in teaching math to 
improve students’ ability to master core mathematical 
concepts by the eighth grade – a key predictor of longer-
term educational success and the pursuit of higher learning 
and jobs in STEM fields. 
We also have advanced our investments in women’s 
economic empowerment programs, including 
“DreamBuilder: The Women’s Business Creator,” an online 
entrepreneurship skills training program that has now 
reached just over 17,000 women in Chile, Peru and the 
U.S. In 2017, via our partnership with Thunderbird School 
of Global Management and a network of 82 dedicated 
partners, we were able to achieve a graduation rate of 
11 percent, outpacing the online learning industry average 
of 4 percent. Evaluation of graduates one year or more after 
program completion indicated that 93 percent increased 
business sales and 46 percent hired additional employees. 
As part of a “Girls, Women & the Global Goals” coalition 
of multi-sectoral partners convened by the NGOs No 
Ceilings, Vital Voices and WEConnect International, we 
committed to invest $5 million by 2021 to promote the 
economic empowerment of women and to address violence 
against women in Chile, Peru and Indonesia. In 2017, we 
embarked upon a new partnership with Vital Voices to 
better understand what women leaders need in order to 
develop both their leadership and technical capacities. 
Based on research and findings, we intend to implement a 
year-long women’s leadership fellowship program in 2018 to 
develop women leaders via a multi-disciplinary approach. 
Participants will receive personal leadership development, 
online and in-person training.
In Indonesia, our PTFI operation has committed to provide 
1 percent of its annual revenue for the development of 
the indigenous Papuan community through the Freeport 
Partnership Fund for Community Development. PTFI’s 
contributions to the Partnership Fund were approximately 
$44 million in 2017 and over $735 million since its inception in 
1996. The Amungme and Kamoro Community Development 
Foundation (LPMAK) is a Papuan community organization 
that oversees disbursement of the program funds. In 2016, 
PTFI and LPMAK signed an agreement extending the funding 
arrangement between the two organizations through 
December 2018. 
Freeport-McMoRan supports STEM education programs in 
its operating communities. The Lego Robotics Club at the Gila 
Valley Boys and Girls Club is supported by a grant from the 
Graham County Community Investment Fund. 
The Don Bosco Technical School in Calama, Chile provides 
quality education opportunities to approximately 800 students 
from El Abra’s area of influence. Freeport-McMoRan’s Chile 
Foundation has contributed $3.5 million toward construction of 
classrooms, labs and multi-use facilities at the school.
23
2017 Working Toward Sustainable Development Report
GRIEVANCE MANAGEMENT 
SYSTEMS
Our operations utilize a community grievance management 
system for recording, processing and responding to local 
concerns. Grievances may be received by Community 
Liaison Officers in the field, through engagement at 
established company/community forums, at physical drop 
boxes or via local hotlines. Site-level Community Grievance 
Officers ensure grievances are handled in a timely and 
transparent manner. During 2017, 152 community grievances 
were recorded at our global operations. Regardless of the 
type and credibility of the allegations, all cases reported 
were documented, reviewed and closed, or are currently 
being processed. 
Our site-level community grievance mechanisms 
complement our global, publicly-available reporting options 
associated with our Principles of Business Conduct, which 
are available to our employees and supply chain partners 
(via our Supplier Code of Conduct). Both mechanisms 
reflect our commitment to remedying adverse impacts we 
cause or to which we contribute. They also help us manage 
and reduce risks by identifying and addressing problems 
before they escalate into larger conflicts. Use of our 
grievance mechanisms does not preclude access to judicial 
or other non-judicial grievance mechanisms.
In 2017, we initiated a project to review our internal and 
external grievance management procedures against the 
effectiveness criteria outlined in the UN Guiding Principles 
(i.e., legitimate, accessible, predictable, equitable, 
transparent, rights-compatible, a source of continuous 
learning, and based on engagement and dialogue). In 
addition to conducting our own internal benchmarking, 
we are engaging with a set of employee and community 
stakeholders to obtain their feedback.
INDIGENOUS PEOPLES
Our engagement and local investment objectives include 
tailored engagements with indigenous peoples in Papua, 
Indonesia; Native Americans in the United States; and the 
communities of Alto El Loa in Chile (Chile’s First People). 
Through community engagement, cultural promotion and 
preservation projects, as well as training and development 
programs, we seek to address the needs, cultures and 
customs of indigenous peoples near our operations.
We have brownfield expansion opportunities at both our 
El Abra operation in Chile and our Bagdad operation in 
the U.S., where we maintain relationships with indigenous 
communities. As we advance these projects, we are 
committed to respecting the rights, interests, aspirations, 
culture and natural resource-based livelihoods of these 
indigenous communities in project design, development and 
operation. We seek to achieve their free, prior and informed 
consent where significant adverse impacts are likely to occur, 
and capture the outcomes of engagement and consent 
processes in agreements or resolutions.
In the U.S., we continued to build on our partnerships with 
federally recognized Native American tribes in the southwest 
including the Hualapai Tribe, the San Carlos Apache Tribe, 
the Tohono O’odham Nation and the White Mountain Apache 
Tribe. By engaging in regular dialogue with the tribes and co-
designing initiatives to meet mutual needs, we have been able 
to further advance our Native American Partnership Fund, 
Native American Community Activities Contributions Fund, 
Native American Scholarship Program and DreamCatcher 
(a one-week entrepreneurial training program for women). 
Over the past five years, 208 college scholarships have been 
awarded to Tribal members, and 36 women entrepreneurs 
have been trained to start or grow small businesses on their 
respective reservations. 
In 2017, we supported the launch of a new Tribal College on 
the San Carlos Apache Reservation which will provide a local, 
post-secondary education option for students. 
Cerro Verde engages with local stakeholders at its Community 
Relations Offices (shown above in Uchumayo), answering 
questions, receiving grievances (17 recorded in 2017) and 
sharing information. Site-level HRIAs, such as the recently 
completed HRIA at Cerro Verde, test the effectiveness of our 
management systems.
2017 GRIEVANCES (152)
	 40%	

Community Benefits
	 22%	

Environment
	 13%	
Other
	 10%	

Health & Safety
	
6%	
Land Rights
	
6%	
Property Damage 
	
3%	
Employment
24
Freeport-McMoRan
Our investment in initiatives at Arizona State University also 
help to address Native American student retention rates and 
higher education opportunities. In addition, our technical 
training institute for Tribal members interested in pursuing 
jobs in mining and related industries continues to be a 
mutually beneficial program, training 1,150 Tribal members 
and placing 302 in trade jobs over the past five years. In 
2018, we look forward to expanding our relationships with 
additional federally recognized Tribes in the U.S.
In Chile, our El Abra mine near Calama continued collaborative 
partnerships with 11 indigenous communities and began 
engagement with two additional indigenous communities in 
a corridor where a potential expansion opportunity exists. 
In response to a jointly identified need to gain a deeper 
understanding of the environmental permitting process, El 
Abra invited the Catholic University of Chile to conduct a two-
day workshop in Calama for El Abra, indigenous community 
members and the regional environmental agency. The 
workshop focused on the indigenous consultation process, 
required and led by the Chilean government for Environmental 
Impact Studies, as well as the rights and responsibilities of 
communities to participate in the process. 
In order to gain a better understanding of the cultural and 
historical ties of the indigenous Conchi Viejo community 
to the cultural heritage sites within our operational area, 
El Abra completed an anthropological study in early 2018 
with the Conchi Viejo community. The study identified three 
cultural heritage sites that are critical to the identity of the 
community, including the village church, which was identified 
to be the most important site. The results of the study will 
assist El Abra and the community in working together to 
preserve cultural heritage for current and future generations. 
In 2017, with the aim of increasing employment opportunities 
for neighboring indigenous communities, El Abra created 
a hiring process tailored to these communities. Seven 
communities currently participate in the process, in which 
certain designated positions are only open to members of 
these communities. Designated positions are open to the 
broader public only if the company is unable to fill these 
positions with qualified community members. As of the end 
of 2017, 13 positions had been filled.
Our PTFI operation in Papua, Indonesia has engaged 
with indigenous Papuan tribes for decades, including 
through multiple formal agreements to promote workforce 
skills training, health, education and basic infrastructure 
development. The desire of indigenous Papuans to preserve 
cultural heritage is shared by PTFI and continuously 
demonstrated through support for cultural festivals and 
books documenting the social uniqueness of the Amungme 
and Kamoro tribes. 
PTFI continues to work with Kamoro community members 
to review and mitigate the impacts of the Levee Extension 
project through a water transportation program and 
associated economic development programs. The purpose of 
the Levee Extension project is to ensure that tailings remain 
within the Modified Deposition Area (ModADA) as required 
by the Environmental Impact Assessment approved by the 
Government of Indonesia. Under the program, developed in 
consultation with village members, PTFI operates passenger 
boats to provide regular water transportation services 
between coastal villages to the east of the tailings deposition 
area, as well as access to healthcare, education and economic 
trade facilities in the Timika region to the west. PTFI also 
works with the Kamoro to encourage economic activities and 
support the production of local commodities. This includes 
a fisheries program, which PTFI supports in partnership 
with the Catholic Church, and the introduction of cocoa as 
a cash crop. In 2017, PTFI introduced a karaka (mangrove 
crab) aquaculture program, which includes the provision of 
crab breeding cages and training for 25 Kamoro youth. PTFI 
also collaborated with the Mimika government to develop 
a coconut plantation in Manasari and worked with Kamoro 
community members to reinvigorate a sago plantation in 
Nayaro. These programs provide alternative income sources 
for Kamoro community members. 
For more information on our community programs, 
please visit the Communities section of our website and 
freeportinmycommunity.com.
Indigenous Kamoro fishermen, who traditionally harvest and 
subsequently sell mangrove crabs, receive PTFI sponsored 
training on modern aquaculture techniques whereby wild 
caught crabs receive supplemental feeding. When brought to 
market, the increased protein content of the crabs results in 
higher economic value for the fishermen. 
The Freeport-McMoRan Environmental Policy, updated in 
2018, is based on our objective to be compliant with laws 
and regulations and to minimize environmental impacts 
using risk management strategies based on valid data and 
sound science. It requires that we review and take account 
of the environmental effects of each activity, whether 
exploration, mining or processing, and that we plan and 
conduct the design, development, operation and closure 
of facilities in a manner that optimizes the economic use of 
resources while minimizing adverse environmental effects.
All of our mining and mineral processing operations 
maintain Environmental Management Systems (EMS) 
certified to ISO 14001, which are independently audited 
on an annual basis. As part of the EMS, employees and 
contractors are trained on site-specific subject areas 
including chemical management, waste management, and 
spill prevention and response. 
Our molybdenum processing facility in Rotterdam, 
Netherlands was the first site in our portfolio to secure EMS 
certification under the new ISO 14001:2015 standard in late 
2016. Fourteen additional facilities certified their EMS under 
the new standard during 2017. Our remaining operations are 
expected to achieve certification to the updated standard 
by September 2018. 
During 2017, we conducted internal environmental audits 
at 13 operations, and our facilities were inspected by 
governmental regulatory agencies on over 100 occasions. 
Since 1996, an independent environmental audit has been 
conducted at PTFI every three years. An executive summary 
and responses to the 2017 audit recommendations will be 
posted on our website when available. 
When operations have received a notice of a NOV from 
a regulatory agency such as shown in the table below, 
the citations typically have involved brief and minor 
exceedances of permit conditions or other recordkeeping 
violations which have zero or minimal environmental impact. 
NOVs also have followed spills or releases related to tailings 
dust or impacted water. 
CLIMATE-RELATED IMPACTS 
AND OPPORTUNITIES
Freeport-McMoRan is committed to managing climate-
related impacts. While copper is crucial for the transition 
to a lower carbon future, we are pursuing efforts to 
mitigate potential impacts while advancing our 
commercial competitiveness. 
Our Corporate Responsibility Committee charter was 
updated in 2018 to include oversight of programs 
to evaluate and address climate-related risks and 
opportunities. We have initiated a multi-year process to 
adopt applicable reporting recommendations of the Task 
Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). In 
doing so, we focus on the copper-producing operations1 
of Freeport Minerals Corporation (FMC); we exclude 
PTFI, which accounts for approximately 55 percent of the 
company’s total direct emissions primarily due to its self-
generation of coal-fired electricity for reliant power as a 
result of its extremely remote location. 
Within FMC, we generally operate very large, low-grade 
copper deposits. These open-pit operations require 
significant energy inputs, principally diesel, electricity and 
natural gas. Our Safe Production objectives include a sharp 
focus on minimizing operating costs with truck haulage 
being a major contributor to both cost, as well as direct 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. As our open pits continue 
to mature, haul road length increases and haul trucks 
are required to move ore farther distances to processing 
facilities. We use real-time systems to monitor equipment 
health, which enables achievement of the highest availability 
and utilization of our haul trucks. A global benchmark of this 
metric indicates that FMC achieves operational efficiencies 
greater than 10 percent compared to our average mining 
company peer. Because of this performance, we avoid 
capital required for purchasing additional trucks, as well 
as the annual operating costs and direct GHG emissions 
associated with operating approximately 28 additional 
haul trucks.
1 
Includes Bagdad, Chino/Cobre, Morenci, Safford, Sierrita, and Tyrone 
mines as well as the Miami smelter in North America. Also includes 
Cerro Verde and El Abra in South America
*   Excludes PTFI where 35 reportable spills occurred, including 21 from pipeline sabotage. 
** Penalties paid were from NOVs at Cerro Verde in 2006 and 2008. 
	
2013	
2014	
2015	
2016	
2017
Reportable spills or releases of hazardous or toxic chemicals	
16	
14	
13	
23	
11*
NOVs related to permit exceedances, spills, 
releases or other compliance matters	
10	
11	
2	
5	
0
Environmental penalties*	
$80,362	
$123,745	
$43,000	
$0	
$317,000**
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE INDICATORS
ENVIRONMENT
25
2017 Working Toward Sustainable Development Report
Indirect emissions are primarily those emitted by our 
electricity providers. In 2017, approximately 80 percent 
of FMC’s purchased power was from low carbon sources, 
including natural gas and renewable energy. We can reduce 
our Scope II emissions over time by seeking additional 
opportunities to purchase power from renewable energy 
sources, while balancing the near-term need for reliable, 
cost-effective power. We have engaged Rocky Mountain 
Institute to perform a detailed evaluation of these 
opportunities by operating region.
We do not operate in jurisdictions where existing 
mechanisms for carbon pricing signal a material increase 
to our costs. However, as countries implement programs 
to meet objectives of the COP 21 agreement, we may 
experience increased costs relating to changes in energy 
sources for, and GHG emissions from, our operations. In 
addition, the cost of electricity and other inputs that we 
purchase may increase if our suppliers incur increased costs 
from the regulation of their GHG emissions. We continue to 
model a hypothetical carbon tax of $50 per metric ton on 
our GHG emissions (both Scope I and II) associated with our 
global copper mines. The associated hypothetical increase 
in operating costs does not necessitate changes to our 
business plans. 
Our mining operations and associated infrastructure 
networks are temporarily affected by weather from time to 
time, primarily extreme precipitation and wind events. For 
example, in the first quarter of 2017, the Arequipa region 
was struck by severe rain events that caused localized 
flooding and damage to roads. Cerro Verde’s production 
was impacted, resulting in lower than planned sales volumes 
for that quarter. While the physical risks of climate-related 
impacts (including location, timing and duration) remain 
highly uncertain, we are embarking on a risk assessment to 
determine vulnerabilities within our business.
2017 FMC PURCHASED 
POWER BY SOURCE 
FMC 2017 TOTAL (SCOPE I AND II) CARBON 
DIOXIDE EQUIVALENT EMISSIONS
5.0 Million Metric Tons
	 36%	

Scope I
	 64%	
Scope II
	 40%	

Natural Gas
	 22%	
Hydro
	 17%	
Coal & Coke
	 13%	
Nuclear
	
6%	

Solar, Wind, Geothermal
	
2%	
Other
Pure copper has the 
best electrical and 
thermal conductivity 
of any commercial 
metal.
Copper plays a key 
role in electric vehicle 
technology.
Renewable energy 
systems are reliant on 
copper components.
26
Freeport-McMoRan
27
2017 Working Toward Sustainable Development Report
El Abra recently extended an 
energy supply contract that 
increases its use of renewable 
energy sources, thereby reducing 
Scope II emissions. By 2021, 
renewables are expected to supply 
100 percent of the operation’s 
electrical power requirements.
Cerro Verde’s new concentrator 
includes a High Pressure Grinding 
Roll circuit that is approximately 
40 percent more energy efficient 
than traditional Semi-Autogenous 
Grinding circuits. 
Maintaining top-quartile 
equipment utilization across our 
operations supports our low-
cost profile with the benefit of 
emissions avoidance associated 
with inefficient use of assets.
28
Freeport-McMoRan
WATER SUPPLY AND 
MANAGEMENT
Freeport-McMoRan operates mines, smelters, metals 
processing facilities and reclamation projects around the 
world. Each operation requires significant quantities of 
water for metal production or for site rehabilitation and 
maintenance activities. We recognize the importance of 
responsible and efficient water management. 
We utilize a water management system to determine near 
and longer-term water use requirements, as well as to seek 
sustainable water sources based on catchment factors such 
as drought exposure and rights to access. Our system begins 
with using operational-based water models to understand 
our water use in order to minimize water losses, maintain 
quality standards and identify recycling opportunities. This 
allows us to seek a reduction in water needs where operational 
efficiencies allow, depending on production requirements.
During 2017, our mining operations required fresh, or make-
up, water supplies of approximately 275 million cubic meters, 
which represents only 18 percent of the water used in our 
processes (82 percent of total water used was recycled or 
reused). Our operations utilized a total1 of approximately 
1,560 million cubic meters of water during the year. 
Minimizing our reliance on freshwater for operations is only 
one part of our water management program. To achieve 
a reduced water footprint within local communities where 
we operate, we continuously analyze the sources of our 
water and seek renewable and recycled sources. Over the 
last five years, we have made progress in achieving this 
management objective. Several examples include:
•	 Replacing 50 percent of the freshwater needs at Cerro 
Verde with treated effluent from a newly constructed 
wastewater treatment plant in Arequipa, Peru
•	 Securing an annual allocation of Colorado River water, 
considered a renewable source in Arizona, where the 
company operates in an arid climate. This effort is focused 
on obtaining long-term water supply contracts with 
multiple Native American tribes who have senior water 
rights in the state. These agreements reduce our reliance 
on local groundwater and surface water and help Arizona 
accomplish its goal of moving industrial water users away 
from groundwater sources.
El Abra is located in a desert environment within the Chilean 
Atacama Desert with rainfall averaging less than 1 inch per 
year. Water for El Abra’s current processing operations comes 
from the continued pumping of groundwater from the Salar 
de Ascotán aquifer pursuant to regulatory approval. We 
continue to evaluate a major expansion at El Abra to process 
additional sulfide material and to achieve higher recoveries. 
Exploration results in recent years at El Abra indicate a 
significant sulfide resource, which could potentially support a 
major mill project similar to facilities recently constructed at 
Cerro Verde. Advancement of the feasibility of an expansion 
includes the evaluation of a desalination plant on the Pacific 
coast along with an accompanying 90-mile pipeline. 
Preventing onsite and offsite impacts to water resources is 
core to our management system. In 2017, our Chino operation 
in New Mexico experienced a 500-year rainfall event. At 
Chino, mine water is contained and recycled in a series of 
loops from the open pit, milling facility, tailings impoundment, 
solvent extraction and electrowinning plant, leach stockpiles 
and various pipes, sumps, containments and dams. During 
extreme precipitation events, it is critical to route onsite water 
from areas in danger of overflowing to areas with adequate 
storage capacity.  Preparedness was rewarded as employees 
were able to leverage instrument readings, back-up power 
and pumping equipment and close communication to keep 
the pumps and dams operational through the duration of the 
event with no offsite impacts.  
1 Total: freshwater + recycled + reused
2017 WATER USE
1,560 Million Cubic Meters
Barge pumps at Morenci transfer water from the tailings 
impoundment for recycling. The majority of our recycled water 
originates from reclaimed water captured at tailings facilities 
and leach pads. 
	 82%	

Recycled Water
	
7%	
Surface Water
	
6%	

Ground Water
	
3%	
Storm Water
	
2%	

Municipal Wastewater
29
2017 Working Toward Sustainable Development Report
TAILINGS
The tailings and waste rock (including overburden) that 
we produce represent our largest volume of waste. 
Managing these large volumes of waste presents significant 
environmental, safety and engineering challenges. In 2017, 
we produced approximately 191 million and 154 million metric 
tons of tailings and waste rock, respectively. The primary 
risks associated with managing waste rock stockpiles and 
tailings relate to structural stability, geochemistry, water 
quality and dust generation. Management of this waste is 
regulated in the jurisdictions where we operate, and our 
programs are designed to be in compliance with applicable 
national, state and local laws, permits and approved 
Environmental Impact Studies.
Freeport-McMoRan’s objective is to have zero catastrophic 
structural failures of tailings storage facilities (TSFs). We 
maintain a tailings management and stewardship program 
designed for continual improvement and assurance, currently 
operating 19 TSFs and managing 56 TSFs that are inactive 
or have been reclaimed. The Tailings Stewardship Program 
includes inspection and management processes associated 
with water dams and crush leach stockpiles.
At the operational level: 
•	 Qualified internal tailings-dedicated engineers and onsite 
leaders manage TSF stability. Roles, responsibilities and 
competencies are clearly defined for these professionals.
•	 We employ qualified external Engineer(s) of Record (EoRs) 
for analyses, designs, inspections and reviews for stability. 
Our EoRs inspect our operating TSFs at least quarterly 
(monthly in some cases). EoRs are actively engaged 
with our operating teams to review ongoing operations, 
performance on stability indicators, and planning for life of 
mine tailings requirements.
•	 We regularly inspect and monitor phreatic level trends and 
adhere to deposition plans, good operational construction 
practices, water management controls, seepage 
management strategies and other stability components. 
We also periodically review as built conditions through field 
and laboratory geotechnical testing programs under the 
guidance of our EoRs.
•	 Water management is a key aspect of tailings 
management to maintain structural stability. Our tailings 
management program includes measures to reduce 
fugitive dust emissions from the surface of tailings 
impoundments and increase reclaimed water capture to 
both minimize the amount of ponded water for stability 
purposes while also reducing evaporation losses (reduces 
freshwater consumption).
At the corporate level: 
•	 Our corporate tailings team provides direction and support 
for implementation of program guidance, procedures and 
operational engineering good practices. Corporate tailings 
engineers are assigned as “Points-of-Contact” for specific 
operations to actively support operations, engineering and 
surveillance, and facilitate communications between site 
teams, the corporate tailings team and EoRs.
•	 In the Americas, the Tailings Stewardship Team (TST), a 
multi-disciplinary group of internal and external experts, 
evaluates the design, operation and maintenance of TSFs 
to ensure that we are following and internally sharing 
good practices. The TST documents, prioritizes and tracks 
progress on recommended actions and inspects all active 
and select inactive TSFs annually and other inactive and 
closed TSFs on a site-specific schedule. In 2017, our TST 
conducted annual field inspections at 19 active and 32 
inactive TSFs. Sites have achieved 95 percent completion 
on TST recommended activities for TSFs (2004 to 2017). 
Tailings, crushed leach, and water engineers pause for a 
photograph during a training and professional development 
workshop at the Miami Tailings Impoundment #5. These 
technical experts are dedicated to overall stewardship of our 
tailings facilities and leach stockpiles. 
A company tailings engineer and a third-party inspector 
perform an annual tailings stewardship assessment at the 
Robinson impoundment at Climax, which has been inactive 
since the 1970s and was reclaimed in the 1990s. 
30
Freeport-McMoRan
•	 In the Americas, we also seek the advice of Technical 
Review Boards / External Tailings Review Boards (TRBs), 
composed of internationally recognized independent 
experts, regarding our EoRs’ design and analysis, as well as 
management of TSF stability and water controls. The TRBs 
provide a layer of assurance that our practices are aligned 
with TSF good practices. We utilize TRBs for all of our 
active TSFs in North America and South America.
We implement the elements of the ICMM Position Statement 
on Preventing Catastrophic Failure of Tailings Storage 
Facilities published in December 2016: accountability, 
responsibility and competency; planning and resourcing; 
risk management; change management; emergency 
preparedness and response; and review and assurance. 
Likewise, we continue to enhance individual elements. 
For example, during 2017: 
•	 We began drafting an “umbrella” TSF Framework 
Management document that connects all of the associated 
programs and procedures together for more effective 
internal communications.
•	 We continued to enhance our operations, surveillance, 
and critical controls systems, and continue to make 
improvements on our Key Performance Indicator 
Dashboard for internal communication between multiple 
levels of operations, engineering, and management.
•	 We added multiple tailings engineers to address resource 
gaps and reinforced accountability and responsibility 
among existing teams; new engineers, along with existing 
engineers, receive continuing education and career 
guidance to verify they have necessary competence and 
leadership to manage assigned scope.
PTFI’s controlled riverine tailings management system is 
implemented based on methods approved and permitted 
by the Government of Indonesia. The site-specific system, 
chosen after extensive evaluations of over a dozen 
alternatives, uses an unnavigable river to transport tailings 
out of the highlands (from approximately 3,000 meters 
elevation) to an engineered deposition area in the lowlands 
referred to as the ModADA. The river is not used for potable 
water, agriculture, fishing or other domestic or commercial 
uses, nor was it used for these purposes before operations 
began. Levees have been and continue to be constructed 
to laterally contain the footprint of the tailings and natural 
sediment within the ModADA while quantities of finer tailings 
and other sediments deposit in the estuary and the sea. 
Independent environmental management expert audits 
have reaffirmed the controlled riverine tailings management 
system is the best site-specific management alternative 
considering the topographical, seismic and geotechnical, 
geological, climatological and environmental conditions of 
the project area. 
In addition to internal and external audits and assessments, 
PTFI uses the ModADA Management Board (MMB) for 
oversight of the tailings system. The MMB is a multi-
disciplinary expert panel that meets on site to assess system 
performance and risks associated with the ModADA and 
coastal zone area. The MMB focuses on the structural integrity 
of the levees and the geochemical stability of the deposition 
area, as well as associated stakeholder engagement. The 
MMB provides recommendations to PTFI leadership and 
engineering teams on priority activities and tracks progress 
on detailed recommendations. 
PTFI’s environmental impacts are well documented, 
monitored and managed, and have been subject to the 
Government of Indonesia’s regulatory oversight, including the 
approval of the AMDAL for PTFI operations, and the approval 
of annual work plans. Impacts of the system, including 
increases in sedimentation, were predicted in numerous 
studies and are consistent with the design and operation of 
the chosen alternative. Monitoring programs have established, 
except for elevation changes, the environmental impacts of 
tailings deposition are reversible at the end of mine life. 
Data from biological sampling continue to demonstrate that 
the estuaries downstream of the tailings deposition area are 
functioning ecosystems, based on both the number of species 
and the number of specimens collected of nektonic, or free-
swimming, organisms such as fish and shrimp. Large-scale 
demonstration reclamation projects show that several land-
use options are possible after final closure of the deposition 
area. When mining is completed, this area can be reclaimed 
with natural vegetation or used for agriculture, forestry, 
grazing of livestock and aquaculture among other options, 
depending on stakeholder ambitions. 
For more information on this topic, including PTFI’s extensive 
biological monitoring system, please refer to the Controlled 
Riverine Tailings Management at PTFI summary document 
available on our website at fcx.com. 
PTFI annual bird surveys on islands formed by fine tailings 
material and natural sediment continue to indicate an 
increasing trend of both species diversity and number of 
individuals observed. Observations of species such as the 
white-bellied sea eagle, an avian apex predator, indicate a 
healthy estuary ecosystem.
31
2017 Working Toward Sustainable Development Report
BIODIVERSITY
Freeport-McMoRan is committed to minimizing operational 
impacts on biodiversity and ecosystem services while 
promoting opportunities to conserve and enhance wildlife 
resources in the areas in which we operate. 
The conservation and management of biodiversity and 
ecosystem services is a key element of our sustainability 
programs and biodiversity considerations are integrated into 
our EMS. This enables us to understand potential impacts of 
our operations, to minimize adverse impacts to the maximum 
extent practicable and to seek opportunities to promote 
positive conservation outcomes at the local and regional 
levels from project design to eventual closure. 
In 2017, all of our North America mining operations adopted 
site-specific Wildlife Protection Plans that include a summary 
of biodiversity baseline data, an assessment of wildlife risks 
associated with site operations and the identification of 
protection measures. The plans are based on an adaptive 
management approach to promote continual improvement 
in wildlife protection and ensure new risks arising from 
operational and ecological changes are adequately addressed.
Several operations conducted programs to promote the 
conservation of imperiled species in 2017. Tyrone operations 
in New Mexico and Morenci and Miami operations in Arizona 
continued to implement management plans that provide 
conservation benefits for endangered fish and bird species 
including the loach minnow and southwestern willow 
flycatcher. In partnership with Colorado Parks and Wildlife, our 
Henderson operations supported boreal toad conservation 
efforts and documented successful reproduction on mine 
property for the second consecutive year. Sierrita operations 
collaborated with Arizona Game and Fish and the U.S. 
Fish and Wildlife Service to establish a new population of 
threatened Chiricahua leopard frogs by relocating over 500 
frogs from the mine area to a previously unoccupied pond 
in the Coronado National Forest. Our Bagdad operations 
supported an Arizona Game and Fish program to establish 
new populations of rare native fish by capturing and relocating 
approximately 200 roundtail chub, 42 Sonora suckers and 161 
desert suckers from Bagdad’s property to nearby East Ash 
Creek. In South America, Cerro Verde operations continued 
conservation programs for endangered guanaco and the 
Peruvian long-snouted bat while our El Abra operations in 
Chile conducted programs benefitting regionally endemic 
vegetation and wildlife at the Salar de Ascotán wetlands area. 
PTFI continued to implement biodiversity programs in 2017 
including conducting long-term ecological studies on natural 
succession processes at two recently-formed islands in the 
Ajkwa Estuary. A total of 66 bird species were documented 
on the islands during quarterly surveys conducted in 2017, 
and long-term data indicate a gradual increase in annual 
species diversity and total number of individuals since 
monitoring was initiated in 2009. This trend, which includes 
observations of avian predators, indicates the health of the 
estuary ecosystem. 
Since 2006, the PTFI Environmental Team’s repatriation 
program has released over 40,000 animals previously held as 
wild pets or confiscated by authorities from illegal traffickers. 
In November 2017, the team released 129 pig-nosed turtles to 
the Minajerwi River.
Cerro Verde’s recently commissioned wastewater treatment 
plant in Arequipa, Peru supplements existing operational water 
supplies while significantly improving water quality within the 
Rio Chili. Just months after commissioning, an increase in aquatic 
and avian species have been observed, including this rainbow 
trout held by fresh water systems technician, Tulio Peralta.
32
Freeport-McMoRan
PTFI also continued to implement its wildlife repatriation 
program, which involves releasing wild animals that were used 
as exotic pets or confiscated from illegal traffickers back into 
native habitats. The program involves collaboration with a 
number of organizations, including the Indonesian Ministry 
of Environment - Natural Resources Conservation Center, 
Lorentz National Park, Mimika Agriculture Quarantine Center, 
Indonesian National Police, USAID LESTARI - Animal Welfare 
and Papua Animal Care. In 2017, a variety of species were 
treated at PTFI’s biodiversity research facility and, once in 
good health, released into their native habitats. These animals 
included 11 endangered or protected species such as the 
black-headed parrot, Papua New Guinea soft-shell turtle, red-
breasted turtle, Papua freshwater crocodile, double-wattled 
Cassowary, ground kangaroo and Panama lizard.
Freeport-McMoRan continued to participate in the Wildlife 
Habitat Council’s (WHC) certification program, which 
formally recognizes meaningful biodiversity conservation 
and environmental education and community outreach 
programs. As of December 2017, a total of 15 operating sites 
and facilities were certified through WHC, 10 of which were 
recognized with gold or silver-tier certifications through 
WHC’s new Conservation Certification process. PTFI also won 
the Marine Intertidal Project award for its restoration of the 
Ajkwa and Waii mangrove islands, the Other Habitats Project 
award for its reclamation work at Grasberg and the Training 
Project award for its environmental internship program. 
Most notably, Freeport-McMoRan won the prestigious 
Employee Engagement award, which recognizes a company’s 
contribution towards conservation through the sheer strength 
of its employee involvement in habitat management and 
conservation education activities.
While the company’s biodiversity projects vary in scope 
and size, each provides an opportunity to benefit both 
local ecosystems and the communities in which we 
operate. Most biodiversity projects involve productive 
collaborations with stakeholders, such as government 
agencies and NGOs, and many incorporate formal outreach 
elements and STEM education opportunities for learners of 
all ages. For example, the company organized and led 10 
pollinator-focused employee engagement and community 
outreach activities at our active and discontinued Arizona 
operations in 2017, including Earth Day celebrations, 
pollinator education workshops and hands-on planting 
events. In total, these activities reached over 750 individuals 
across the state. Safford also leveraged its Burrowing Owl 
Habitat Enhancement Program for conservation education 
by hosting a Conservation Day event that celebrated owl 
species and provided environmental education activities for 
local students. The Arizona Mining Association recognized 
Safford for its long-standing commitment to burrowing owl 
conservation by awarding it with the 2017 Sustainability, 
Preservation and Diversity in the Environment award. 
The WHC awarded PTFI with the Gold Tier Program award for its 
wildlife conservation and community engagement programs. 
Safford was recognized at the Platinum level for its compliance 
history, environmental management system and habitat 
conservation efforts along the Gila River. Manager Jeff Monteith 
accepts the Arizona Department of Environmental Quality 
Voluntary Environmental Stewardship certificate, a first for a 
mining operation.
2017 Biodiversity Photo Contest 
Co-winner: Jeremy Burton, Climax 
Electrical Apprentice I
Mountain goat at sunrise among 
wild flowers near Climax mine in 
Colorado.
33
2017 Working Toward Sustainable Development Report
2017 Biodiversity Photo Contest 
Co-winner: Russ Gossett, Lead 
Environmental Specialist
Sunset along Burro Creek near 
Six Mile Crossing, an area just 
west of Bagdad known for its 
wildlife, vegetation and geology. 
34
Freeport-McMoRan
      2013
36,100
38,400
49%
35
0.74
41
5.9
4.3
689
 
69% 
16
10
    80
    173
  2,814
17,283
     
 
 
   $
   
 $
  $
$
 
Workforce
Employees 
Contractors 
Percent Employees Under Collective Bargaining Agreements
Safety & Health
Fatalities 
Total Recordable Incident Ratea
Occupational Illness Cases
Environment
Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions (million metric tons)
Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions (million metric tons)
Total Water Consumptionb (million cubic meters)
Percent Recycled Waterb
Reportable spills or releases of hazardous 
or toxic chemicals
Notices of Violations related to permit exceedances, 
spills, releases or other compliance matters
Environmental Penalties ($ thousands)
Social
Community Investments ($ millions)
Cash Payments to Governmentse ($ millions)
Direct Economic Contributionse ($ millions)
      2014
35,000
46,300
48%
7
0.56
46
5.2
4.3
1,326
79%
14
11
124
198
3,355
17,030
     
 
 
   $
   
 $
  $
$
      2015
34,500
37,500
48%
3
0.56
43
6.0
4.6
1,459
80%
13
2
43
165
1,993
14,475
     
 
 
   $
   
 $
  $
$
      2016
30,000
29,100
47%
6
0.64
26
5.5
4.9
1,738
81%
23
5
0
142
1,428
13,414
     
 
 
   $
   
 $
  $
$
      2017
25,200
28,000
39%
5
0.76
38
4.5
3.6
1,560
82%
11c
0
317d
153
1,346
12,158
     
 
 
   $
   
 $
  $
$
TREND DATA
Note: As a result of methodology changes or corrections, prior year data may be updated. Data presentation and comparisons may not 
meet the direct needs of all stakeholders, and we encourage users of this information to contact our Sustainable Development Department 
at sustainability@fmi.com with inquiries.
a.  TRIR = [(Fatalities + Lost Time Incidents + Restricted Duty Incidents + Medical Treatment) x 200,000] / Total Hours Worked.
b.  Excludes all facilities located in Arizona for year 2013 due to water rights litigation.
c.   Excludes PTFI where 35 reportable spills occurred, including 21 from pipeline sabotage.
d.  Penalties paid were from NOVs at Cerro Verde in 2006 and 2008.
e.  Please see detailed information in our WTSD reports published on fcx.com/sustainability.
35
2017 Working Toward Sustainable Development Report
