T
he nature of our business impacts the environment and communities surrounding our operations. We mitigate impacts to the extent 
practicable through state-of-the-art control and remediation measures. We develop infrastructure, support health, safety and education 
efforts, and provide local employment and business development opportunities. The products we produce are critical for sustainability and 
higher standards of living. To supply essential natural resources to current and future generations, we are guided by our stated business 
objectives, principles and policies, and we continuously improve our sustainable development programs. Our approach has three core elements:
OUR APPROACH
6  
ECONOMIC
Leverage our operating and financial 
expertise, technologies and supply 
chain to ensure that we remain a 
vibrant, sustainable business entity.
ENVIRONMENTAL
Evaluate environmental aspects 
continuously throughout a project’s 
life cycle to minimize adverse 
impacts and promote opportunities.
SOCIAL
Operate safely, and uphold and respect human rights. 
Engage openly and transparently with internal and external 
stakeholders and keep our commitments in order to 
build trust. This enhances our ability to obtain permits to 
operate and ensures we have a dedicated workforce.
PRINCIPLES OF BUSINESS CONDUCT
Our approach is based on the overarching values detailed in our 
Principles of Business Conduct, which set forth the global system 
of principles that our workforce must follow in all activities – 
from complying with laws and avoiding conflicts of interest to 
developing positive relationships in local communities. In 2014, 
we plan to update our Principles of Business Conduct to 
emphasize our core values, clearly communicate our expectations 
and reflect our business objectives in today’s operating 
environment. We also have developed a Supplier Code of Conduct, 
to be released in 2014, to ensure that the same values and 
expectations are clearly communicated to our supply chain partners.
Our supporting policies, along with external standards and 
initiatives, form the overall framework that guides our 
sustainability programs. Supporting this framework are internal 
governance and management systems that provide the essential 
details on how we operate.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE
The Corporate Responsibility Committee of our Board of Directors 
is responsible for overseeing our policies and programs related to 
the environment, human rights, safety and health, governmental 
and stakeholder relations, community health and social 
investments. The Committee examines key performance data and 
receives briefings concerning challenges and emerging issues in 
these areas. During 2013, the Corporate Responsibility Committee 
received various reports and considered numerous items with a 
particular focus on safety, which included reviewing the root 
causes of fatal accidents, the corrective actions implemented to 
prevent accidents in the future, enhancements to our fatality 
prevention program, our safety accountability practices and our 
aviation safety activities. In addition, during the year, the Corporate 
Responsibility Committee reviewed our HIV/AIDS prevention 
program in Indonesia, malaria prevention program in the DRC, 
global social programs and expenditures, and political activity 
and spending practices. The Corporate Responsibility Committee 
reports to our Board of Directors, which provides oversight on all 
matters, including the economic viability of our Company – the 
first element of our approach to sustainable development.
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT LEADERSHIP TEAM
The Freeport-McMoRan Sustainable Development Leadership 
Team provides strategic and operational guidance regarding 
our sustainability commitments. The team is sponsored by our 
Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer, 
and is led by our Vice President of Environmental Services and 
Sustainable Development. The team includes business unit 
presidents and senior personnel from the safety, supply chain, 
human resources, sales, compliance, and land and water functions. 
During 2013, the team reviewed and addressed key issues and 
projects including:
•  
Our corporate-level Human Rights Impact Assessment and 
overall process for integration of the UN Guiding Principles 
for Business and Human Rights into our programs
•  
Development of a Supplier Code of Conduct that specifies 
our expectations of suppliers with respect to sustainability 
areas such as anti-corruption, human rights, social and 
environmental performance
•  
Development of Freeport Compliance eXchange, a survey-based 
online due-diligence software designed to assess the risk level of 
suppliers based on criteria related to anti-corruption and human 
rights. The tool provides important data that will enable us to 
help ensure our suppliers demonstrate ethical business conduct.
•  
Organizational response to current and emerging requirements, 
initiatives and value chain inquiries associated with material and 
product stewardship
•  
Monitoring of emerging sustainability reporting initiatives 
including the GRI G4 Guidelines
•  
Review of stakeholder engagement strategies and outcomes, 
including the socially responsible investment (SRI) community, 
banking institutions and nongovernmental organizations (NGOs)
•  
Our global social investment programs, including our new 
Foundation in Chile
•  
Progress of sustainability performance targets
•  
Implementation of the ICMM Sustainable Development 
Framework, including observations and recommendations from 
our site-level assurance program
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Project planning and project life-cycles can span decades. We 
consider early and effective engagement with stakeholders critical 
for creating mutual opportunities and reducing sustainability-risks 
to our plans. We seek strategic partnerships with host governments, 
communities and development partners to ensure the viability 
of our projects while delivering meaningful benefits. We aim to 
work with persons and entities that have pragmatic ideas to help 
us improve our performance, as well as with those who genuinely 
seek to understand the overall economic, social and environmental 
impact of our operations. 
Our mining operations maintain 5-year community engagement 
and development plans that identify affected or interested parties 
and appropriate methods for ongoing engagement. Local strategies 
for stakeholder engagement are aligned with business-related 
risks and opportunities identified in each operation’s Sustainable 
Development Risk Register. We engage with hundreds of entities 
via community foundations, formal grievance systems, individual 
meetings and operations tours, workshops, participatory group 
panels or focus groups, town hall meetings and surveys. We also 
engage at the earliest stages through regulatory consultation 
processes with local governments and community groups, including 
indigenous peoples, as part of brownfield expansion plans for our 
copper business. 
Our corporate Sustainable Development Department and senior 
personnel regularly work with the SRI community and NGOs 
through in-person meetings and site visits, teleconferences, inquiries 
via email and conferences. In 2013, our corporate team engaged 
with over 40 investor organizations, sustainability analysts, banks, 
government entities and NGOs regarding our sustainability 
programs and performance. Key topics of interest included safety 
and occupational health, controlled riverine tailings management at 
PTFI, human rights, security and community engagement programs. 
As an example, during September and October of 2013, we held 
stakeholder roundtable meetings in New York and London to review 
the methodology, process and initial outputs of our corporate-level 
Human Rights Impact Assessment. More than 30 participants from 
over 20 entities, including academia, NGOs, business partners and the 
investment community, participated and provided meaningful input 
with respect to our human rights programs. 
AUDITS AND ASSESSMENTS 
To ensure our policy commitments and objectives are being met, 
we implement a combination of audit and assessment programs 
along with an annual program for site-level assurance of the ICMM 
Sustainable Development Framework. Every major operation 
undergoes a comprehensive internal audit (including contractors) 
of environmental and health and safety systems at least once 
every two years. Our operations also are routinely inspected by 
regulatory agencies or ministries of host governments. The health 
and safety management systems and environmental management 
systems of our operations obtain independent certification to 
Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001 
and International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001, 
respectively. These systems include corrective and preventive action 
OUR APPROACH
2013 WORKING TOWARD SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT   |   7
tracking for internal and external audit findings. In addition, 
customers or financial institutions may request to conduct 
sustainability focused audits or assessments at certain facilities 
depending on geographic location and life-cycle stage.
PROJECT DEVELOPMENT SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW
Our Project Development Sustainability Review process allows us 
to integrate sustainability considerations into mine development 
or expansion projects. The process is designed to help multi-
disciplined project teams identify risks, unintended consequences, 
trade-offs and opportunities so they may be adequately addressed 
early and throughout each stage of project development. Project 
Development Sustainability Reviews occur at the scoping, pre-
feasibility, feasibility and/or engineering/construction stages of 
projects, and the process also is applicable to exploration projects. 
This review process complements our operational Sustainable 
Development Risk Register procedure for existing operations. 
Since inception, we have implemented reviews for 13 projects, 
including three during 2013. Key areas of focus identified at scoping 
stages include access to water, energy and materials, potential 
impacts to hydrology, air quality, human rights, community 
receptivity to the project, economic impacts, and land acquisition 
and resettlement. As we respond to increased demand for our 
products, our ability to reduce or mitigate certain impacts such as 
land disturbance, absolute greenhouse gas emissions and water 
consumption will be challenged even as we continue to integrate 
sustainability considerations in the early phases of our projects.
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT RISK REGISTER 
The Freeport-McMoRan Sustainable Development framework is 
designed for alignment with the ICMM Sustainable Development 
Framework and implemented based on site-specific factors 
and influences over the short to long term. Our framework 
has evolved over the past five years and operations vary in 
maturity of its implementation. Essential to our framework is the 
Sustainable Development Risk Register process, which prioritizes 
environmental, social and economic challenges and opportunities 
based on our views of potential impacts to our business and the 
importance of these topics to stakeholders. As part of this process, 
local management teams utilize a matrix with eight consequence 
categories, including safety, community, environmental, 
reputational and production impacts. 
Our Sustainable Development Department works with operational 
management teams to review operational risks to ensure the process 
is effective in articulating and prioritizing key business risks and 
associated action and monitoring plan elements. For example, 
during 2013 and into 2014, corporate personnel facilitated training 
with PTFI leadership not only to assist in focusing the operation’s 
sustainable development risk register on the most significant 
challenges, but to identify, resource and track key actions towards 
desired outcomes. As a result, PTFI is developing an operational-
level Sustainable Development Risk Register standard operating 
procedure (SOP), which exceeds the requirements of the corporate 
SOP and incorporates a unique management structure to address a 
large, geographically complex operation.
Resulting sustainability focus areas identified through this 
Sustainable Development Risk Register process have not changed 
significantly over recent years and are described on the adjacent 
page and throughout the report. We present specific operations 
where the focus area is currently of particular significance. 
OUR APPROACH
8  
Leaders of Freeport-McMoRan’s South American operations join members of the corporate 
Sustainable Development Department during an annual environmental and sustainable 
development workshop in Santiago, Chile.
SUSTAINABILITY FOCUS AREAS
2013 WORKING TOWARD SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT   |   9
Artisanal 
Mining
Illegal artisanal and small-scale miners have limited equipment and expertise at operating in hazardous conditions and can create 
social conflict and environmental impacts, including placing their own health and safety at risk. 
PTFI, TFM 
p. 24
Biodiversity
We own, lease and operate large land holdings around the world including, at certain locations, in and adjacent to areas of 
high biodiversity value. We manage our operations in a manner to identify impacts and, where practicable, implement actions 
that conserve and enhance biodiversity (including reclamation activities). 
All Mining Operations
p. 30
Community 
Engagement and 
Development
Our social and economic development programs are responsive to issues raised by communities, including indigenous 
peoples, and help us maintain good relations and avoid disruptions of operations. Nevertheless, social demands or instability 
in the areas of our operations can adversely impact our mining operations. 
Cerro Verde, PTFI, TFM
p. 20
Corruption
As a company with global operations,  our business may be adversely affected by issues related to corruption. Violations of 
anti-corruption laws could result in criminal liability, serious fines and imprisonment. Reputational harm from the violation of 
anti-corruption laws also can be significant. 
Cerro Verde, PTFI, TFM 
p. 15
Energy 
Management
Energy generally represents approximately 20 percent of our consolidated copper production costs. Potential new regulatory 
requirements or legislation related to greenhouse gas emissions could result in costs associated with our emissions as well 
as an increase in raw material and purchased power costs. We have modeled carbon tax scenarios and cannot predict the 
magnitude of increased costs with any certainty given the wide scope of potential regulatory changes in the many jurisdictions 
in which we operate.
All Mining Operations
p. 26
Labor 
Relations
As of December 31, 2013, approximately 50 percent of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. We 
continue to engage openly with our employees and union leadership to successfully negotiate labor agreements recognizing that 
prolonged strikes or other work stoppages at our operations can adversely affect our business and local and regional stakeholders. 
Cerro Verde, Operations in Chile, PTFI
p. 12
Safety and Health
We sadly incurred 35 fatalities in 2013, including the loss of 28 workers in a fall of ground event in an underground training 
facility at our Indonesian mining operations. We are working continuously to eliminate fatalities and improve safety 
performance at every operation. Protecting the safety, health and welfare of our workforce is a core value. 
All Operations
p. 13
Security and 
Human Rights
Our operations may be adversely affected by impacts from security risks stemming from events or activities including, separatist 
movements, political instability, labor strikes, illegal artisanal mining and civil strife. These risks could impose limitations on 
operational logistics. The Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights serve as guidelines for our security and human rights 
programs, interactions with host government police and military personnel, and with private security contractors. 
Cerro Verde, PTFI, TFM
p. 17
Tailings and 
Waste Rock 
Management
Managing the volume of waste rock, leach material and tailings produced in our mining operations presents significant 
environmental, safety and engineering challenges. We maintain large leach and waste rock stockpiles and tailings 
impoundments that contain viscous material, which must be monitored for structural stability. Our tailings impoundments 
in arid areas also have programs to suppress fugitive dust emissions. 
Cerro Verde, Morenci, PTFI, Sierrita, TFM
p. 29
Water Supply 
and Management
We require significant quantities of water for mining and ore processing. Most of our operations in North and South America 
are in areas where water is scarce; continuing access to water is significant from the perspective of multiple stakeholders, 
including local communities. We maintain programs to promote efficient use of water and are advancing alternative water 
supply projects. Uncontrolled seepage of process-related solutions or sulfate also can impact water quality. Some mined 
material can generate acid rock drainage and when properly managed, the impact from these solutions can be contained 
and controlled. 
All Mining Operations
p. 28
SUSTAINABILITY FOCUS AREAS
PERFORMANCE TARGETS
10  
PERFORMANCE TARGETS
2013 Status
2013 Performance Description
Target Date
Business Ethics
With our online training module, annually train 90% of targeted 
employees who interact with, or have the potential to interact 
with, government officials on anti-corruption laws, regulations 
and Company policies and procedures
 √
95% of targeted employees completed the anti-corruption online 
training course.
Annually 
Recurring
Workforce
Increase the percentage of women in our workforce, including 
representation in managerial positions, to 15%
X
Women comprise 10% of our employee population and hold 12% 
of all managerial positions, which is relatively unchanged from 
recent years.
Ongoing
Safety & Health 
Incur zero fatalities
X 
Sadly, we incurred 35 work-related fatalities in 2013.
Annually 
Recurring
Meet company-wide total recordable incident rate (TRIR) of 0.55
 X
Our TRIR(a) was 0.74 for 2013.
Annually 
Recurring
Human Rights
Incur zero human rights violations at our operations(b)
X 
We received a community report of an alleged rape by one of 
our private security contractors in the DRC. In another reported 
incident in the DRC, Mines Police (host government security) were 
dispersing a group of illegal miners who had entered an active pit 
during the night and one illegal miner was found fatally shot.
Annually 
Recurring
Communities
Invest (in aggregate) 1% of the average of the previous 
three years annual mining operations revenue, as reported 
in Freeport-McMoRan’s audited consolidated financial 
statements, in community programs, including in-kind support 
and administration (2013 target of $193 million)
X 
Approximately $173 million was invested in community programs 
across our operations, relatively unchanged from the prior year 
despite lower commodity prices. The shortfall is primarily related 
to timing of the community infrastructure projects at PTFI and 
lower contributions to the PTFI Partnership Fund due to decreases 
in production.
Annually 
Recurring
Implement at least two new community programs that are 
directed at supporting the development of women
On schedule
We continue to advance programs focused on women’s economic 
empowerment, including a partnership designed to mentor Native 
American women who want to start or grow small businesses.
2014
Work with regional and local governments, community 
stakeholders, private sector developer(s) and businesses, to 
commence construction of town infrastructure and residential 
housing in the Integrated Development Zone in our TFM 
concession to support sustainable urban growth
New Target
2016
Environment
Incur zero significant environmental events (rating of three or 
higher on Sustainable Development Risk Register)
 X
During the year, approximately 1,000 metric tons of tailings 
spilled from a pipeline near our Ojos del Salado operation in Chile 
resulting in local impacts to farmland and an associated clean-up 
operation in coordination with regulatory agencies. 
Annually 
Recurring
Incur zero penalties more than $100,000
 √
Our operations did not incur any penalties exceeding $100,000.
Annually 
Recurring
Operations prioritized using the Sustainable Development 
Risk Register process to implement a water management/
conservation plan
 √
Water balance models are maintained at all operations in water-
stressed regions. These operations also utilize a common format 
for water management plans, including scenario planning.
2012
(a) Includes FM O&G 
(b) Please see the Security & Human Rights section on page 17 for information regarding our updated human rights target.
WORKFORCE
2013 WORKING TOWARD SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT   |   11
A
s a leading international natural resource company, we 
continue to advance significant expansion projects and our 
exploration drilling programs continue to identify opportunities 
for future reserve and production growth. The ability to achieve 
our business goals depends on successfully recruiting and retaining 
talented employees. We offer not only competitive compensation 
and benefits, but also a culture of personal and professional 
development throughout career progression. 
LOCAL HIRING AND SKILLS DEVELOPMENT
We make concerted efforts to hire locally, as this practice promotes 
understanding of local cultures and complements our long-standing 
commitment to community engagement and development. For 
example, at our largest operation, PTFI, located in the remote 
province of Papua, Indonesia, our policy is to prioritize the hiring 
of indigenous Papuans. At year-end 2013, 99 percent of PTFI 
employees were Indonesian and of that total, 35 percent were 
indigenous Papuans (up from 32 percent two years prior). At 
our TFM operation, 98 percent of our employees are Congolese 
citizens. We also employ approximately 240 Native Americans at 
our U.S. operations, an increase of 20 percent since 2012. 
Our technical training program with the San Carlos Apache Tribe 
in Arizona, the first of its kind between Freeport-McMoRan and 
a U.S. tribe, is intended to increase the employability and skills of 
Apache students who are faced with high unemployment in their 
community. The program is designed to train and certify students in 
heavy equipment operations and industrial maintenance. Through 
the end of 2013, 200 students have entered the program and 42 have 
graduated – most of whom have been hired or are in the process 
of being hired. In Chile, our haul truck operator training program 
at the Candelaria operation has graduated over 240 trainees since 
inception. Graduates have found employment at our operations, 
other companies or with businesses supporting the mining industry 
in Chile. 
Our regional technical training programs prepare community 
members for careers in mining, even though trainees have no 
obligation to join our Company. The Nemangkawi Mining 
Institute in Papua, Indonesia continued its success in 2013, having 
placed over 2,300 apprentices into permanent positions to date 
at PTFI, over 90 percent of whom are indigenous Papuans. To 
teach Papuan employees about the Company’s global operations 
and processes, we also conducted three four-week Papuan-U.S. 
Workforce Development Training programs in 2013 at our 
corporate office in Phoenix, Arizona. Twenty-four participants 
attended daily English-language skills classes, presentations by 
various business functions and professional development courses. 
	
	
Our learning and leadership development team 
offers employees courses designed to align with 
Freeport-McMoRan’s leadership competencies 
and expectations. The subject matter includes 
understanding key business drivers and 
business fundamentals, developing strategies 
for becoming an influential communicator and 
leadership development. These professional 
training courses help ensure a highly-skilled, 
motivated workforce to help our Company 
reach its potential.
Senior technical advisor, Aldo Perazzonem, demonstrates set-up procedures for proper 
oxyacetylene welding to San Carlos Apache students at the Freeport-McMoRan Mine 
Training Institute. The Mine Training Institute works closely with our mining operations to 
identify the skills necessary to ensure safe production.
EMPLOYEES
Approximately 36,100 as of December 31, 2013
37% North America 
34% Indonesia 
16% South America 
  9% Africa
  4% Europe/Other
 
CONTRACTORS
Approximately 38,400 as of December 31, 2013
50% Indonesia 
34% South America 
10% Africa 
  5% North America 
  1% Europe/Other
Workforce data includes FM O&G 
WORKFORCE
12  
LABOR RELATIONS
Our workforce increased to approximately 36,100 employees and 
38,400 contractors by year-end 2013. Approximately 50 percent 
of our employee population is covered by collective bargaining 
agreements and 1 percent of our labor force is covered by 
agreements that will expire during 2014. We work cooperatively 
with 24 unions worldwide. Our policy is to ensure fair treatment 
and work conditions for all employees, including rights to freedom 
of association and collective bargaining. Employees have the right 
to exercise freedom of association at all of our operations.
During fourth-quarter 2013, we reached agreements on two new 
Collective Labor Agreements, which combined are applicable to 
approximately 31 percent of our total employee population. In 
October 2013, PTFI entered into a new biennial labor agreement, 
and Cerro Verde signed a new four-year Collective Labor 
Agreement in November. 
DIVERSITY 
We operate in regions of varying ethnic, religious and cultural 
backgrounds and are generally the largest employer in local 
communities. The resulting diverse backgrounds and perspectives 
within our workforce are an asset to our business. We prohibit 
discrimination and harassment, and our Principles of Business 
Conduct and Human Rights Policy require that all employees treat 
everyone in and around our operations with dignity and respect.
We seek ways to recruit and foster career development for 
women in our Company as women traditionally have been 
underrepresented in the mining sector. We have several women 
in key management roles within our organization, including our 
Chief Financial Officer, as well as two members of our Board of 
Directors. The percentage of women represented in our Company 
varies across geographies, from a high of 17 percent in North 
America to a low of 3 percent in the DRC. Nearly 1,000 women 
have joined our Company since 2010 (including over 350 in 
FM O&G) however, the percentage of women in our employee 
population remains at 10 percent which is below our 15 percent 
target. We participated in over 30 recruiting events in 2013, 
including those intended to increase the diversity of our employee 
base, such as the MBA Women International career expo and the 
Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers annual conference. 
Karla Peabody, a metallurgist at the Safford operation in Arizona, maintains a piezometer on 
the Phase I leach pad. Piezometers provide real-time solution level data to metallurgists who 
monitor the structural integrity of leach pads to ensure the safe production of copper.
WORKFORCE COMPOSITION
In thousands of workers as of December 31 
10
  0
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
Contractors
Employees
EMPLOYEES UNDER COLLECTIVE 
BARGAINING AGREEMENTS
By operating region as of December 31, 2013
Africa
Europe/
Other
Indonesia
North 
America
South 
America
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
SAFETY AND HEALTH
2013 WORKING TOWARD SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT   |   13
S
afety is integral to all Freeport-McMoRan operations. Our 
philosophy of Safe Production is demonstrated by the integration 
of safety practices in all aspects of our operational activities. 
Safety is the responsibility of all employees and managed by a 
formal structure starting with our Safety and Health Policy. Our 
Board of Directors requires comprehensive audits to assure the 
safety management system is effective, weaknesses are identified, 
and resources are applied to achieve the Company’s policy 
objectives. Independent health and safety audits are conducted at 
all sites on a 2-year rotating cycle, including 19 audits conducted 
in 2013. These independent audits are supplemented with ongoing 
internal safety audits and inspections that focus on specific hazards 
or on operations performing below safety targets. 
We draw no distinction between contractors and our own 
employees with regard to health and safety performance and 
reporting. Based on OHSAS 18001, our Health and Safety 
Management System consists of a framework for managing risks 
and compliance obligations. Twenty-seven locations or entities, 
including all active mining operations, maintain accredited OHSAS 
18001 certification globally.
After six consecutive years of total recordable incident rate (TRIR) 
improvement, our company-wide TRIR increased to 0.74 in 2013, 
missing our target of 0.55. We worked 175 million hours in 2013 
compared to 169 million in the prior year, and we recorded a total 
of 649 reportable injuries in 2013 compared to 487 in 2012.
FATALITY PREVENTION 
In May 2013, a fall of ground event at a PTFI underground 
training facility resulted in 28 fatalities and injuries to 10 of our co-
workers. This unprecedented incident was thoroughly investigated 
by PTFI, international experts, the Indonesian Department of 
Energy and Mineral Resources (DEMR) and other government 
authorities. PTFI cooperated thoroughly with the three Indonesian 
government investigations of the incident, which were conducted 
by the Police, Indonesian DEMR mine inspectors, and a specially-
appointed investigation team led by experts in the Indonesian 
mining industry. 
In response to the accident, and in consideration of recommendations 
made by government inspectors, independent experts, and the 
internal Investigation Steering Committee, PTFI has undertaken 
a number of actions to improve safety. Key measures include 
a complete review of ground support in PTFI’s underground 
workings, removal of all ceilings or other barriers to line of sight, 
and improvements to inspection and monitoring programs. PTFI 
also is reviewing its detailed ground control processes and procedures 
and has developed a revised ground control management plan. 
Seven other workers died in separate tragic accidents at our operations 
in 2013. A full root-cause analysis has been completed for each  
event, and remedial actions and systems improvements are being 
implemented to reduce the likelihood of recurrence. Please see our 
website for more information related to the fatal events in 2013.
* Includes FM O&G 
TRIR = [(Fatalities + Lost Time Incidents + Restricted Duty Incidents + Medical Treatment) x 200,000] / Total Hours Worked
	
2009	
2010	
2011	
2012	
2013*
Workplace Fatalities	
3	
2	
5	
6	
35
Total Recordable Incident Rate	
0.74	
0.65	
0.61	
0.58	
0.74
Occupational Illness Cases 	
9	
6	
16	
25	
41
SAFETY AND HEALTH SUMMARY DATA
Including Contractors
SAFETY AND HEALTH
14  
We continue to aggressively refine and improve elements of our 
Fatality Prevention Initiative, which emphasizes identification and 
management of potentially fatal risks. Our Fatality Prevention 
Guideline has been revised to include additional detail based on 
field inspections and feedback from front-line employees across our 
operations. The guideline now includes an updated list of Global 
Significant Risks (GSRs) which require specific task training on 
critical control identification and implementation. Our auditing 
procedures also are being refined to better assess the utilization and 
effectiveness of critical controls.
With subject matter experts, we continue to analyze our GSRs to 
develop and enhance tools for identifying critical controls necessary 
to reduce the risk of injury. In addition, we are developing core 
training modules on GSRs that are universal to our operations, 
including but not limited to confined space, work at height, open 
holes, and lockout / tagout / tryout. These training modules are 
being developed using modern instructional design techniques to 
ensure personnel develop the necessary competencies required of 
our safety policies and programs. Competencies will be measured 
through written and practical evaluations. 
A key component of our Fatality Prevention Initiative continues 
to be the company-wide communication of potential fatal event 
(PFE) advisories, which describe any incident that has the potential 
for a fatal consequence. In 2013, the Company issued 53 PFEs, 
which are treated as if an actual fatality occurred and a full incident 
investigation is required. Upon completion of each incident, a 
PFE Follow-up Advisory that identifies the causal factors of the 
incident and recommendations for preventive actions is distributed 
to all operations.
While our focus is on fatality prevention, 
we recognize a need to reduce our overall 
injury rate. Freeport-McMoRan trends 
indicate that hand injuries are the 
number one contributor to our TRIR. As 
a result, we began a Take 5 for Hand Safety campaign in 2013. The 
campaign consists of monthly safety messages on topics including 
glove use, proper tool use, and general hand safety guidelines.  
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH 
Freeport-McMoRan operations maintain comprehensive 
occupational health programs to assess the risk of exposure to 
occupational health hazards and implement adequate controls 
for the workforce. Our Field Guide for Occupational Health and 
Industrial Hygiene defines occupational exposure limits, standards 
and practices that apply globally. There were 41 occupational 
illness events in 2013, an increase of 64 percent from the prior year. 
A single event at a remediation site is attributed to seven cases of 
plant-based contact dermatitis. There were also 15 cases of heat 
exposure and 15 cases of exposure to toxic or chemical agents as 
singular events during the year. No permanent disabilities resulted 
from these occupational illness cases. Each incident was subjected 
to a job safety analysis by safety and health specialists to further 
define and promote recognition of hazards and implement controls 
to prevent recurrence where applicable.
Earl Laney, utility crew Supervisor, reviews hazards with new employees before entering the 
Morenci concentrator. The “Red Hats” participate in an intensive 90-day training program 
focused on the Company’s Safe Production philosophy.
2009-2013 WORKPLACE FATALITIES
By Event Type
Ground Fall
28*
Falling Objects
3
Transportation
4
Moving Machinery
2
Wet Muck
4
Fall From Height
1
Light Vehicles
4
Heavy Equipment
1
Other Causes
4
*Associated with a fall of ground event at a PTFI underground training facility in May 2013.
BUSINESS ETHICS
2013 WORKING TOWARD SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT   |   15
W
e are committed to the highest level of ethical and legal 
conduct. The Freeport-McMoRan Principles of Business 
Conduct are a commitment to integrity and define the expected 
behavior of all employees and our Board of Directors. We conduct 
comprehensive training on our Principles of Business Conduct, 
including annual certification of management-level employees (98 
percent trained in 2013). This process consisted of computer-based 
training, as well as a certification that the employee understands 
the Principles of Business Conduct and is not aware of any issues of 
non-compliance. Principles of Business Conduct training also 
is provided annually to non-management 
employees on a rotating basis by geographic 
location. Of the 12,180 employees selected in 
2013, 94 percent completed the training. In 
2014, we will begin our next 3-year rotation, 
starting with employees in the U.S. and South 
America. This training also is mandatory for 
all new hires.
ANTI-CORRUPTION
Corruption sometimes is widespread in 
local government systems and cultures near 
our operations, particularly in developing 
countries. We do not tolerate the offering or 
payment of bribes, kickbacks or other similar 
payments to any person or organization or 
government official to secure advantages for 
our business. Likewise, we do not accept any of 
these payments. Our Anti-Corruption Policy and Guidelines assist 
in ensuring compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices 
Act of 1977 (FCPA) and other relevant anti-corruption laws, 
including local laws. 
During 2012, the Company also developed and implemented a 
new online training module focused on the FCPA and other anti-
corruption laws. The training module was issued to employees 
who regularly interact with government officials. In 2013, through 
the use of this new tool, we were able to provide focused training 
to more than 2,280 employees at operations around the world. 
The online training is not meant to replace our existing classroom 
training programs; rather, it has been developed to supplement 
existing systems and extend the reach of the Company’s overall 
compliance efforts. Going forward, we will broaden our training 
selection process to include additional employees within key 
departments and executive-level groups who may interact with 
government officials, as well as support functions. This approach 
may increase the number of employees selected for the training and 
provide a more consistent and automated selection process.
During 2013, we held in-person classroom training at TFM for 
key departments, including Government Relations, Travel, 
Immigration and Logistics. Training also was conducted in 
support functions, including the Legal, Human Resources 
and Accounting departments along with senior management 
responsible for approval procedures and internal controls. In 
addition, several classes were held for 
TFM’s contractors. Anti-corruption training 
at TFM reached more than 90 employees 
and contractors. The Company also 
conducted similar training at PTFI during 
2013, reaching more than 190 employees 
and contractors. 
In recognition of the potential legal liability 
for the actions of our business partners 
under the FCPA and other laws, the 
Company finalized development of an 
online due diligence platform, the Freeport 
Compliance eXchange (FCeX). FCeX is a 
survey-based software platform designed to 
assess risk in the areas of anti-corruption, 
international trade controls and human 
rights. Launched as a pilot at PTFI, TFM 
and Cerro Verde during the first half of 
2014, and scheduled to be rolled-out to the rest of the Company’s 
non-US operations throughout the remainder of 2014, FCeX is 
expected to significantly enhance the Company’s ability to identify, 
assess and mitigate compliance risks.
INFORMATION AND REPORTING
Freeport-McMoRan maintains a Compliance Line to provide 
guidance and assistance to workforce members with any questions 
or concerns related to our Principles of Business Conduct. To 
encourage our workforce to raise any potential violations of 
business conduct, we also provide anonymous reporting through 
our compliance system. During 2013, 572 reports were made 
through the Freeport-McMoRan Compliance Line relating 
to various topics, including employee workplace conduct; 
environment, health, and safety; protecting Company assets; 
and conflicts of interest. All reports are investigated and, if 
substantiated, appropriate disciplinary action is taken, including 
termination of employment.
BUSINESS ETHICS
16  
TRANSPARENCY OF GOVERNMENT PAYMENTS 
In 2008, we endorsed and committed to support the Extractive 
Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), which is a commitment 
for governments to disclose revenues, and for oil, gas and mining 
companies to disclose natural resource payments to governments 
in order to advance responsible governance and accountability. A 
Freeport-McMoRan executive serves on the EITI International 
Board of Directors and other employees directly participate in 
supporting in-country EITI processes.
The DRC, temporarily suspended but fully engaged with the EITI, 
and Indonesia are candidate countries under EITI. Our TFM and 
PTFI operations directly participate and support implementation 
of each country’s work plan, respectively. TFM participates as a 
member of the DRC EITI multi-stakeholder group. Our Cerro 
Verde operation participates and supports implementation of EITI 
in Peru, which became a compliant country in early 2012. 
We also participate on the U.S. EITI multi-stakeholder group 
which, in December 2013, approved the U.S. EITI Candidacy 
Application for submittal to the EITI Secretariat and International 
Board for review and approval. On March 19, 2014, the U.S. was 
accepted as a candidate country by the EITI. 
Our payments to host governments via taxes, royalties and other 
obligations are a significant contribution to national, regional 
and local development. We believe that increased transparency of 
natural resource revenues is an important mechanism to promote 
better governance and accountability regarding the distribution 
of natural resource revenues. In addition to our country-level 
EITI commitments, our practice is to report annual material 
cash payments to governments in all countries where we conduct 
business, as presented below.

Corporate Income Taxes, Net of Refunds	 $     128	
$  204	
$  336	
$ 160	
$     2	
$   3	
$    833
Withholding Taxes on Foreign Dividends	
–	
183 	
–	
–	
–	
–	
183
Employee Payroll Taxes	
523	
24	
46	
118	
42	
24	
777
Dividends	
–	
–	
–	
–	
–	
–	
–
Royalties and Net Severance Taxes	
240	
55	
–	
101	
29	
–	
425
Property Taxes	
125	
1	
–	
9	
–	
2	
137
Other Taxes and Fees	
115	
41	
103	
110	
106                  
	
(16)	
459
Total 	
$ 1,131	
$ 508	
$ 485	
$ 498	
$ 179	
$ 13	
$ 2,814
(a) This schedule reflects a voluntary effort by Freeport-McMoRan to capture its material cash payments to governments (net of refunds), including payments by FM O&G.
(b) 
Represents cash payments to governments by Freeport-McMoRan’s other business groups that are located outside of the countries where Freeport-McMoRan 
conducts its operations. 
For the year ended 
December 31, 2013
($ millions)
CASH PAYMENTS TO GOVERNMENTS(a) 
	
    U.S.	
    Chile	
Peru	
Indonesia	
 DRC	
Other	
Total
	
	
	
	
	
	
Countries(b)
SECURITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS
2013 WORKING TOWARD SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT   |   17
W
e do not tolerate human rights violations, and our Human 
Rights Policy requires our Company and our contractors 
to conduct business in a manner consistent with the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights. In order to do so, we promote human 
rights awareness through outreach and training to our employees, 
contractors and communities, and protect anyone who reports 
suspected violations. We have established site-specific human rights 
policies and procedures consistent with the Freeport-McMoRan 
Human Rights Policy, in-country laws and regulations, 
and the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights 
(Voluntary Principles). Our site Human Rights compliance officers 
oversee compliance and training, as well as a grievance mechanism 
for reporting, documenting and following-up on all human rights 
allegations that are reported in our areas of operations.
HUMAN RIGHTS PROGRAM UPDATE
For 2014 and beyond, we have adjusted our target to incur zero 
gross human rights violations* at our operations. The update does 
not lessen our commitment to respect all human rights as set forth 
in our policies and programs, but assists in focusing on avoidance of 
the potential impacts of highest severity. 
In 2013, we advanced our work to integrate the UN Guiding 
Principles on Business and Human Rights into our existing 
human rights program. We contracted a UK-based advisory 
firm to assist us with a corporate-level human rights impact 
assessment to identify potential impacts across our portfolio and 
assess opportunities for further due diligence at the operating level 
using a risk-based approach (see topic dashboard below). As part 
of the assessment, we conducted two international stakeholder 
verification meetings with more than 20 entities to receive input 
on the assessment’s methodology and presented initial findings. 
We plan to complete the assessment in 2014 and use the findings 
to inform a review of our human rights policy and strategy. Our 
preliminary findings from the human rights impact assessment 
illustrated that our greatest potential impacts globally are related to 
environmental and community issues, and our greatest actual and 
perceived impacts are related to community and employee issues. 
This high-level assessment will help us prioritize areas of focus as 
well as identify operations where more in-depth assessments would 
be beneficial. The tool allowed us to identify that both for potential 
and actual impacts, our TFM operation is our highest ranking site, 
followed by our PTFI operation; both findings are in alignment 
with stakeholder views.
In 2013, we also continued to participate in the Business for Social 
Responsibility’s multi-industry human rights working group, 
which has provided us with a forum for gaining insight from 
peer companies to help determine the best way to integrate 
human rights due diligence into our business practices. 
* There is no uniform definition of gross human rights violations under 
international law; however, the United Nations Office of the High Commissioner 
report: The Corporate Responsibility to Respect Human Rights – An Interpretive 
Guide, provides guidance on identifying such types of violations. 
Employees
Working conditions
Freedom of association and 
collective bargaining
Forced and compulsory labor
Child labor
Safe and healthy working conditions
Discrimination
Contractors and workers in 
the supply chain
Children’s rights, including 
access to education
Community
Standards of living / quality of life
Community health and safety
Displacement / resettlement
Economic activity / livelihoods
Cultural heritage
Minorities, including indigenous peoples
Third Parties
Conduct of government security forces
Conduct of private security forces
Presence of artisanal / small-scale miners
NGOs and civil society groups
Judicial system (access to remedy)
Environment
Water security
Pollution
Waste and hazardous 
materials management
Increased exposure to natural hazards
CORPORATE-LEVEL HUMAN RIGHTS IMPACT ASSESSMENT
TOPIC DASHBOARD
SECURITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS
18  
As previously described, in 2014 we launched a web-based due 
diligence tool for suppliers (including contractors) that includes 
human rights topics. FCeX is a survey-based software platform 
designed to assess risk and includes a questionnaire to suppliers 
for completion prior to being approved as a business partner or 
when a contract is due for renewal. Among several legal, regulatory 
and reputational risk areas, the tool includes questions related to 
human rights that we believe are important to the integrity of our 
supply chain. 
In 2013, we continued to implement a Project Development 
Sustainability Review process, as previously reported, for new or 
brownfield expansion projects. The process includes an assessment 
of risks and opportunities associated with human rights to embed 
early in project plans. In addition, our Cerro Verde mine in Peru, 
as part of a current expansion project, contracted a third-party in 
2013 to conduct a security risk assessment, which included a review 
of Voluntary Principles implementation. All existing operations 
continue to evaluate human rights risks on an ongoing basis as part 
of the Sustainable Development Risk Register process.
SECURITY
Security risks near our PTFI operations in Papua, Indonesia stem 
from the presence of in-migration, separatist activists and advocates 
in the region, presence of illegal gold panners in the project area, 
and social, political and ethnic tensions within the local community 
and in other areas of the province. 
PTFI employs approximately 750 unarmed personnel and 
130 unarmed private security and transportation and logistics 
contractors that perform functions such as protecting facilities, 
monitoring shipments of supplies and products, assisting in 
traffic control and aiding in emergency response operations. 
The Grasberg minerals district has been designated by the 
Government of Indonesia as one of Indonesia’s vital national 
assets. This designation results in the police, and to a lesser extent, 
the military, playing a significant role in protecting the area of 
our operations. The Government of Indonesia is responsible 
for employing police and military personnel and directing their 
operations. In 2013, PTFI entered into a revised and updated 
Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Provincial 
Commander of the National Police. The MoU covers a 3-year term 
and details the working relationship between PTFI and the public 
security personnel, including areas of support, coordination and 
commitment to PTFI policies and procedures, including business 
ethics and human rights. The Voluntary Principles are included 
in the MoU. PTFI’s share of support costs for the government-
provided security was $25 million for 2013. This supplemental 
support consists of infrastructure and other costs, such as food, 
housing, fuel, travel, vehicle repairs, allowances to cover incidental 
and administrative costs, and community assistance programs 
conducted by the military and police. 
From the beginning of 2009 through January 2014, there have been 
15 fatalities and 58 injuries to employees, contractor employees, 
host government security personnel and civilians from shooting 
incidents within our project area. In 2013, there was one injury and 
no fatalities. PTFI continues to respond with measures of enhanced 
security for both personnel and material transport. To date, no 
persons or entities have claimed responsibility for these incidents, 
and the Company continues to call for full investigations and justice. 
TFM currently faces a number of security and social risks, such 
as risks posed by illegal artisanal miners present on the TFM 
concession as well as a rapid population influx of migrants 
looking for economic opportunities. TFM’s operations have
not been impacted by this reported activity nor has the activity 
altered any future operational or expansion plans. TFM and 
local authorities continue to work in a cooperative manner, 
including hosting monthly security meetings to proactively address 
potential civil unrest. 
TFM employs approximately 350 unarmed security employees 
and 390 unarmed private security contractors. In addition to 
these security personnel, the national government has assigned 
approximately 140 Mines Police to the TFM concession area. 
The Mines Police are a division of the Congolese National Police 
TFM, in coordination with United National Organization Stabilization Mission (MONUSCO), 
conducts human rights training for civil society members, host government security forces, 
and its workforce. Former TFM President Mike Ciricillo, TFM Human Rights Compliance Officer 
Nzati Didier-Michel and TFM Community Grievance Manager Cathy Kongola join a group of 
stakeholders who have completed a full-day human rights training session.
SECURITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS
2013 WORKING TOWARD SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT   |   19
and are responsible for maintaining security in mining concessions 
throughout the DRC. TFM has entered into a MoU with the 
Mines Police that details the working relationship between TFM 
and the Mines Police, including areas of support, coordination 
and commitment to TFM policies and procedures, including 
business ethics and human rights. The Voluntary Principles are 
incorporated in the MoU. TFM provides food, housing, monetary 
allowances and logistical support as well as direct payments to 
the government for the provision of the security assigned to the 
concession area. The total cost to TFM for this support, including 
in-kind support, totaled less than 
$1 million in 2013.
Provision of support is consistent with 
our obligations under our agreements 
with the respective governments, our 
philosophy of responsible corporate 
citizenship and the Voluntary Principles. 
We periodically review our support 
practices to ensure they are appropriate, 
lawful and properly controlled.
REPORTING AND ENGAGEMENT 
MECHANISMS
In 2013, 34 human rights-related allegations 
were reported to the PTFI Human Rights 
Compliance Officer compared to 19 in 
the prior year. The cases did not include 
any allegations of human rights violations 
committed by PTFI personnel or contractors 
against the local community, but there were a number of 
allegations against or among our employees and their dependents. 
Nine of these allegations were human resource cases, eight were 
harassment cases, two were intimidation cases, one was a criminal 
case, and one was unsubstantiated. There were also 13 cases related 
to domestic issues reported in 2013.
In 2013, a joint site and corporate assessment was conducted to 
identify areas for strengthening the current human rights grievance 
mechanism. Revised training on human rights grievances may be 
needed to continue to educate internal and external stakeholders 
about their rights and the appropriate mechanisms for reporting.
In 2013, 17 human rights allegations were reported to and recorded 
by the TFM Human Rights Compliance Officer compared to 12 
in 2012. Of the cases reported, five were alleged physical assault or 
injury, four were criminal cases, four were human resource cases, 
three were verbal harassment cases, and one case was unsubstantiated. 
All cases were documented, reviewed and closed, or are in the process 
of being followed up by the TFM Human Rights Compliance 
Officer or investigated by government authorities. 
Four of the five physical assault or injury cases at 
TFM involved allegations made against security 
contractors and employees or host government 
security personnel. Of those four security-related 
cases, one of them resulted in termination of a 
security employee, one is still under review by the 
local government security council, and two were 
deemed not credible and closed. Two of the four 
criminal cases were security-related. One case 
involved an alleged rape by a security contractor. 
That case was investigated by local authorities 
and closed on the basis of insufficient evidence. 
Nevertheless, the security contractor removed 
the accused from the TFM concession. The 
second case was related to a fatality when Mines 
Police were dispersing a group of approximately 
200 illegal miners who had entered an active 
TFM mine pit during the night and one illegal miner was found 
fatally shot. TFM called for the provincial police to conduct an 
investigation of the incident and also contacted local human rights 
NGOs to brief them on the incident and seek their support in 
monitoring and reporting on incidents related to illegal mining.
For more information on our Human Rights programs, including 
related stakeholder engagement and our training programs, please 
see our Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights 2013 
Report to the Plenary on our website.
Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights  
2013 Annual Report to the Plenary
 
March 2014 
Montreux, Switzerland
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (Freeport-McMoRan) has been a member of the Voluntary 
Principles on Security and Human Rights (Voluntary Principles) since it was ﬁrst established in 2000.1  
The Voluntary Principles have been an important cornerstone of Freeport-McMoRan’s human rights and 
security program, providing guidance for our operations as well as a mechanism to promote 
engagement, awareness, and respect for human rights within our employee base and with our 
government and community partners. Freeport-McMoRan is a leading international natural resources 
company with headquarters in Phoenix, Arizona. The company operates large, long-lived, geographically 
diverse assets with signiﬁcant proven and probable reserves of copper, gold, molybdenum, cobalt, oil 
and gas. The Company has reserves in geographically diverse operations including Indonesia, Democratic 
Republic of Congo (DRC), Chile, Peru and the United States. In some of these challenging locations 
education levels, poverty, in-migration, diversity of culture, and weak rule of law have combined to 
create a real need for improved security and human rights programs.  
 
In the second-quarter of 2013, Freeport-McMoRan acquired North America-focused oil and gas assets, 
but due to the timing of the acquisition these assets are not included in the scope of this report. In 2014, 
we plan to conduct a security and human rights risk assessment of these assets and identify any high risk 
areas where Voluntary Principles implementation should be incorporated. 
 
This report includes an explanation of changes or new developments in our human rights program as 
well as implementation activities in 2013. While much of the background information does not diﬀer 
from previous years’ reports, it is provided here for new stakeholders and members of the Voluntary 
Principles. Country implementation details are provided for Indonesia and the DRC, as our operations in 
these locations represent our most signiﬁcant security and human rights challenges. 
 
A. 1. Statement of Commitment or Endorsement of the Voluntary Principles 
In 2000, Freeport-McMoRan joined other mining and oil and gas companies, governments and human 
rights organizations in endorsing the joint U.S. Department of State-British Foreign Oﬃce Voluntary 
Principles on Security and Human Rights. Since 2000, as the Company has grown in scope 
internationally, we have worked closely with our aﬃliate sites throughout the world to assist them in 
the implementation of the Voluntary Principles.  The Company’s endorsement of the Voluntary 
Principles is set forth on our website and can be found at the following link:  
1 Freeport-McMoRan is also a founding member of the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) and 
implements the ICMM Sustainable Development Framework, which includes a commitment to uphold human 
rights.
COMMUNITIES
20  
W
e recognize that our operations have economic, social and 
environmental impacts on local communities throughout 
a project life cycle. Some of these impacts include land use 
change and population influx, while others include economic 
opportunities and development in the areas of infrastructure, 
health and education. We engage openly and transparently with 
local stakeholders to facilitate our ability to operate and grow 
our business. Our Community Policy calls for collaboration with 
communities to minimize and mitigate adverse impacts and 
cultivate opportunities to maximize benefits.
Engagement and consultation ensures communities have input 
into our development and operating projects and promotes a 
better understanding of our business operations. Dialogue with 
local stakeholders occurs formally through open houses and 
regulatory processes, but also through regular interactions with our 
community development representatives in the field, community 
partnership panels and community investment funds. During 2013, 
we considered additional, formalized engagement, assessment 
and management systems to effectively address social impacts 
and community development topics near our operations in Chile. 
Coupled with the Freeport-McMoRan Chile Foundation for 
social investment, we anticipate significantly increased strategic 
stakeholder engagement and community development activities in 
Chile beginning in 2014. 
Our Project Development Sustainability Review process allows 
our project teams to develop mitigation plans to address key 
social impacts and opportunities prior to the project permitting 
phase. During permitting processes, such as an Environmental 
and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA), potential impacts and 
where appropriate, associated mitigation plans are socialized with 
local stakeholders and those plans frequently become project 
commitments. At existing operations, we use the Sustainable 
Development Risk Register process to review potential economic, 
social and environmental risks that may directly or indirectly 
impact local communities. Each operation’s 5-year community 
engagement and development plan is updated annually, and links 
to the Sustainable Development Risk Register so that engagement 
methods and development objectives are aligned with identified 
risks and opportunities for the business. The plans, at varying 
levels of maturity across our operations, include mechanisms for 
evaluating our impacts and performance on an annual basis.
Our operations use a community grievance management system for 
recording, processing and responding to community concerns. We 
continuously evaluate these systems to ensure their effectiveness. 
Approximately 485 community grievances were recorded at 
worldwide operations during 2013, of which about half were 
related to resettlement at TFM (described below). TFM maintains 
an Independent Mediation Committee (IMC) to independently 
and impartially resolve grievances. Mediation only occurs if 
the complainant is not satisfied with TFM’s resolution to the 
initial grievance recorded through the grievance system and the 
complainant requests the grievance be presented to the IMC. In 
2013, the IMC received 34 cases, of which 12 were resolved (related 
to community resettlement, safety and employment) and the 
remaining 22 are in process. 
The grievance systems at our operations are maturing since 
establishment across operations in 2010, with an increase in 
grievances reported each year. Excluding grievances related 
to TFM resettlement, the systems have recorded nearly 200 
community grievances in 2013 versus 70 in 2011. Types of 
grievances processed include those related to employment, blasting, 
dust emissions and land rights. 
TFM COMMUNITY RESETTLEMENT
Due to the expansion at TFM, access to new land results in impacts 
to farmland and households, and in many cases economic and/
or physical displacement cannot be avoided. TFM maintains a 
Land Access, Compensation, and Resettlement Policy Framework 
which is a public document that sets out the principles, procedures, 
entitlements, eligibility criteria and organizational arrangements 
governing TFM’s compensation for involuntary resettlement 
impacts. The framework, along with TFM’s other commitments 
to displaced households and communities, was developed 
in alignment with DRC law and the International Finance 
Corporation (IFC) Performance Standards.
TFM follows a multi-step participatory and transparent process 
where all project-affected households are fully engaged and fairly 
compensated to ensure that the living standards of displaced 
households are improved or at least restored to pre-project 
conditions. For each phase of any resettlement, TFM conducts 
a comprehensive socio-economic baseline and census, and then 
prepares a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP). Each site-specific RAP 
identifies all economically and physically impacted households, 
whose displacement is unavoidable, within a clearly identified 
footprint. These impacts are then mitigated via cash compensation, 
and/or replacement of assets, and restoration of livelihoods. 
The annual third-party audit of the resettlement program in 
2013 indicated that the livelihoods for the Phase I RAP have 
largely been restored. In order to conduct robust monitoring of 
household income levels, various data sources were considered 
such as household surveys, yields and household possessions. For 
COMMUNITIES
2013 WORKING TOWARD SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT   |   21
the majority of households the data shows that people are faring 
equal or better than prior to resettlement, and for those who are 
not, monitoring efforts are ongoing. The livelihood monitoring is 
still ongoing and will continue for a minimum of three years for the 
Tenke-Fwaulu RAP as communities were moved only one year ago. 
Resettlement planning for the Oxide Project expansion advanced 
in 2013, with a particular focus on the Bloc Mitumba community 
located near the Fungurume Hills. The Oxide Project ESIA 
was completed and an area-specific RAP has been drafted. 
The Mitumba-Fungurume Hills RAP is expected to impact 
approximately 1,240 surveyed households, through physical and/
or economic displacement. Resettlement is scheduled to occur in 
four phases over two years, starting in 2014. TFM will develop 
additional area-specific RAPs as the Oxide Project advances. Please 
visit our website for more information on TFM’s community 
resettlement program.
INDIGENOUS PEOPLES 
Our community engagement and local investment objectives are 
significantly focused on indigenous Papuans in Papua, Indonesia; 
Native Americans in the United States; and the communities of 
Alto El Loa in Chile (Chile’s First People). Through community 
engagement, cultural promotion and preservation projects, and 
training and development programs, we seek to address the needs, 
cultures and customs of indigenous peoples near our operations. 
Engaging with groups focused on indigenous peoples rights at the 
local, national and international levels is also important for two-way 
sharing of information about approaches to indigenous peoples topics 
in varying geographies. For example, in the U.S., we maintain a 
cooperative engagement with the NGO, First Peoples Worldwide, 
which in 2013 issued a report titled Indigenous Rights Risk Report 
for the Extractive Industry (U.S.) Preliminary Findings. 
PTFI’s “January Agreement” of 1974 with the Amungme was 
the first recognition in Indonesia of hak ulayat, or the right 
of traditional people to land used for hunting and gathering. 
Compensation in the form of recognition (rekognisi) is paid to 
communities for a release of hak ulayat rights, as hak ulayat is a 
communal property right. PTFI has paid recognition in several 
instances over the years through programs mutually agreed to 
by consultation and guided by the laws of the Government of 
Indonesia. In addition, land rights trust funds for the Amungme 
and Kamoro tribes were created in 2001 to provide voluntary 
special recognition for holders of the hak ulayat. PTFI has 
contributed nearly $52 million to these funds through 2013.
In 1996, PTFI established the Freeport Partnership Fund for 
Community Development (the Partnership Fund), through which 
PTFI has made available funding and technical assistance to support 
the economic, health, education and social development for the 
indigenous Papuan community. Through the Partnership Fund, 
PTFI has committed to provide 1 percent of its annual revenue 
for the development of the indigenous Papuan community (page 
23). The Amungme and Kamoro Community Development 
Organization (LPMAK) is the Papuan community organization that 
oversees disbursement of the program funds. LPMAK is governed 
by a board of commissioners and a board of directors, which are 
comprised of representatives from the local Amungme and Kamoro 
tribal communities, local government, Papuan regional leaders, 
church leaders, and PTFI.
In Chile, our El Abra operation engages regularly with 10 
indigenous communities and the operation maintains an Agreement 
of Cooperation with the Community of Conchi Viejo whose town is 
The indigenous Quechua de Kosca community near Calama, Chile, celebrates its patron 
saint, the Virgin of the Rosary of Andacollo, with a week-long festival. To commemorate the 
occasion, our El Abra operation presented a company-sponsored book documenting the 
Quechua de Kosca’s history and culture.
PTFI’s community program contributes to the development of local industries that create 
non-mining jobs for indigenous Papuans. The company supports a Papuan-operated animal 
husbandry business that employs approximately 390 Papuans in the city of Timika. In 2013, 
the business sold over 12 million eggs and 82,000 chickens, earning approximately $2 million 
in revenue.
COMMUNITIES
22  
located between the plant and the mine. In 2013, El Abra received a 
Sustainable Management award from the Association of Industries 
of Antofagasta for its efforts to protect the heritage, culture and way 
of life of Alto El Loa indigenous communities. 
In the U.S., engagement with Native American tribes continued 
in 2013. Education has been identified as a priority issue for the 
partnership, and our Native American University scholarship 
program awarded 58 college scholarships to members of the 
Hualapai, San Carlos Apache, and White Mountain Apache 
tribes during the year. We also contributed, including through 
the Native American Partnerships Fund, approximately $250,000 
toward initiatives such as training on forest management for 
carbon sequestration on reservations and supported the San Carlos 
Apache Women’s Conference, a forum for tribal women to share 
experiences on topics including family health. 
In 2013, the ICMM updated its 2008 Position Statement on 
Indigenous Peoples and Mining, to which we adhere. The 
statement sets forth an obligation to work to obtain the consent 
of indigenous peoples for new projects that are located on lands 
traditionally owned by or under customary use of indigenous 
peoples. Additional commitments address engaging indigenous 
peoples, understanding their rights and interests, building cross-
cultural understanding, agreeing to appropriate process for 
consultation and engagement, and participating in decision making. 
COMMUNITY INVESTMENT
Freeport-McMoRan’s community investment strategy addresses 
high-priority needs and facilitates local capacity building to 
sustain communities post-closure. Our formal Social Investment 
Criteria is a set of guidelines designed to ensure that resources 
are used effectively by decreasing community dependencies on 
our operations and ensuring that we enter into partnerships that 
support sustainability. 
Our community investment totaled $173 million in 2013, 
unchanged from the prior year, despite a $0.30 decrease per pound 
in the average annual price realization for copper. The variance 
from our 2013 community investment target of $193 million was 
due primarily to deferral of discretionary investments due to 
market conditions. However, we continuously review our budgets 
to ensure we maintain an adequate level of local investment. 
In addition to direct community investment from operations 
and the Freeport-McMoRan Foundation, we have established 
community foundations or social funds in Chile (established in 
January 2014 with an initial $10 million), the DRC, Indonesia, 
Peru, and the United States, which are managed by community 
members who determine the allocation of funds to priority 
programs that focus on education, health and economic 
development. For example, contributions to the PTFI Partnership 
Fund were over $41 million in 2013 and over $600 million since its 
inception in 1996.
 
COMMUNITY INVESTMENT
(in $ millions)
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
0
50
100
150
200
Actual Expenditures
1% Target
1% Target: Invest (in aggregate) 1% of the average of the previous three years 
consolidated ﬁnancial statements, in community programs, including in-kind 
support and administration.
 
annual mining operations revenue, as reported in Freeport-McMoRan’s audited
2013 COMMUNITY 
INVESTMENT 
27% Community Trust Funds  
22% Education and Training
18% Economic Development 
11% Safety, Health and 
               Environment 
10% Administration
12% Other*
and Infrastructure
$173 million
* Includes arts, culture, heritage, resettlement and employee programs such as Matching Gifts 
   and United Way.
COMMUNITIES
2013 WORKING TOWARD SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT   |   23
During 2013, we continued our support of science, technology, 
engineering and math (STEM) education and student performance 
through teacher development and retention initiatives, deployment 
of classroom resources, and provision of educational grants. 
Our focus on STEM is aligned with the long-term technical 
requirements of our business, as well as environmental education 
opportunities available at most of our operations. We also have 
advanced our investments in women’s economic empowerment 
programs, such as “Dreambuilder-Women’s Business Creator,” 
an online entrepreneurship skills training program. Other 
empowerment initiatives include an agricultural training program 
in the DRC in partnership with Women for Women International, 
as well as PTFI’s assistance of Kamoro women through a 
cooperative that supports income-generating activities. 
Through philanthropy and volunteerism, our employees are 
dedicated to making communities better places to live and work. 
Freeport-McMoRan U.S. employees helped raise more than $2 
million during the Company’s 2013 United Way campaign and 
when combined with the Company’s Matching Gifts program, a 
total of more than $6 million was raised. In April 2013, approximately 
800 employees, their families and friends volunteered during the 
Company’s 11th annual Global Volunteer Month, which focused on 
environmental awareness and stewardship in their local communities.
PUBLIC HEALTH
We operate in parts of the world that lack clean water and 
sanitation, and have populations with low levels of health education, 
awareness and access to adequate health services. Malaria, HIV/
AIDS and tuberculosis (TB) are serious infectious diseases 
impacting communities near our operations in Indonesia and the 
DRC, including members of our workforce. In coordination with 
local governments and NGOs, we dedicate significant resources to 
helping communities and governments reduce public health risks.
PT FREEPORT INDONESIA
The PTFI Community Health Department, supported by the 
company’s medical services provider International SOS, implements 
programs for education, prevention, counseling, diagnosis and 
treatment of diseases within and around the project area. In addition 
to the approximate $7 million invested in community public health 
programs by PTFI in 2013, LPMAK contributed almost $20 million 
to community health care programs. This included the operation of 
community hospitals in Timika, in the lowlands, and Banti, in the 
highlands, as well as implementation of a comprehensive public health 
program addressing HIV/AIDS, TB, malaria, mother and child 
health, and clean water.
With a prevalence rate much higher (300 per 100,000 people in 2013) 
than the national prevalence rate in Indonesia, HIV/AIDS is an 
emerging threat in the Mimika Regency, Papua. The HIV/AIDS 
epidemic in Papua is predominately characterized by heterosexual 
transmission, especially impacting the indigenous Papuan population. 
PTFI implements a number of HIV/AIDS prevention, outreach, and 
 
 
 

The Utikini Noken Group began as a group of women volunteering at a local mother and child 
clinic near our PTFI operations. In 2012, it received initial support from PTFI’s Micro, Small 
& Medium Business Program to open a kiosk to sell traditional bags (noken). The women 
pictured here were sponsored by PTFI to promote and sell their indigenous crafts at the 2013 
APEC Women and the Economy Forum in Bali.
Our Cerro Verde mining operation in Arequipa, Peru has provided financial and technical support 
for efficient crop irrigation systems in surrounding communities. More than 130 farmers are 
benefitting from 7.5 kilometers of new irrigation channels that prevent excess water losses. 
COMMUNITIES
24  
treatment programs for employees and community members. In 
2013, PTFI conducted HIV/AIDS education and outreach activities 
reaching over 15,000 community members and 9,500 employees, 
distributed condoms, and conducted over 630 one-on-one counseling 
sessions with commercial sex workers. PTFI also increased HIV/
AIDS Voluntary Counseling and Testing (VCT) services for 
employees by offering VCT for anyone receiving a checkup unless 
they opt out. In 2013, approximately 13,300 employees participated in 
VCT, an increase of over 3,000 employees from the prior year, and 57 
new cases were detected. Antiretroviral therapy is provided for HIV 
positive cases among PTFI’s workforce and community members by 
the Indonesian government.
PTFI received a Community Empowerment Program Gold 
Award from the Government of Indonesia for its efforts in 
reducing HIV/AIDS, TB, and malaria, and improving maternal 
health in 2013. 
TENKE FUNGURUME MINING
In 2008, TFM conducted a baseline health assessment and 
identified serious diseases that impact the local community, 
including malaria, HIV/AIDS and other sexually transmitted 
infections (STIs), TB, onchocerciasis and diarrhea. Rapid influx 
into the urban center of Fungurume by people seeking economic 
opportunities linked to the mine has created strains on the 
provision of limited public health services. 
Before TFM began operations, malaria was the largest cause of 
morbidity and placed a significant social and economic burden on 
the wider community. TFM implements an integrated malaria 
control program to protect the workforce, as well as the community 
residing within the concession – the first of its kind in the DRC. 
The integrated program consists of targeting vectors and parasites, 
as well as an indoor residual spraying program for accessible 
villages in the core concession, including more than 220,000 rooms 
(approximately 70,000 houses). In 2013, 273 malaria cases among 
employees were diagnosed and treated, representing an overall 
reduction in total workforce malaria incidence of 76 percent since the 
start of the program in 2008. 
Improving access to clean water is critical to improving local 
health and living standards. Since 2007, 113 water wells have been 
constructed in and around TFM’s concession, including 19 in 2013. 
The TFM Social Community Fund facilitated training for 20 
artisanal repairmen during the year and continues to monitor water 
quality and conduct capacity building of local water management 
committees to sustain the water wells through a usage fee system. 
GBCHealth awarded TFM’s clean water and sanitation program 
as first-place in the category of Health & Beyond: Tackling Root 
Causes in 2013. 
In 2013, an interim referral hospital was built as a joint partnership 
between TFM and the Fungurume Health Zone and is co-
located with the TFM employee health facilities. Operating the 
two facilities in the same compound creates an opportunity for 
shared capacity building and joint use of medical space and health 
care equipment. This partnership model to provide improved 
health facilities with the local government is the first of its kind at 
Freeport-McMoRan’s mining operations.
ARTISANAL MINING
Illegal artisanal and small-scale miners have limited equipment and 
expertise at operating in hazardous conditions and can create social 
conflict and environmental impacts, as well as placing their own 
health and safety at risk.
PT FREEPORT INDONESIA
PTFI uses controlled riverine tailings management to transport 
the tailings to a designated area in the lowlands and coastal zone, 
called the Modified Deposition Area (ModADA). Thousands of 
illegal artisanal and small-scale miners pan for gold in the Otomona 
river system (downstream of the mill) within the project area. 
The artisanal miners include local community members, but the 
majority are from outside the region. 
One of the greatest risks from illegal gold panning is the potential 
use of mercury. PTFI monitors regularly for mercury use via 
routine environmental monitoring programs, and mercury 
has not been detected above natural background levels in the 
river ecosystem. PTFI also maintains a continuous air mercury 
With TFM Social Community Fund financial assistance, the Agronomy Department of the 
University of Lubumbashi has completed bank cleaning along the Kelangile River (pictured 
right of the town of Fungurume above). Removal of excess debris and organic matter along 
the river promotes flow and drainage while helping reduce waterborne illnesses by reducing 
mosquito breeding habitat. 
monitoring system in the town of Timika, and since 2010, mercury 
has been detected at elevated levels in parts of the town where gold 
shops are present. Due to these monitoring systems and outreach, 
PTFI believes the risk of mercury use in the river system has 
been significantly reduced. Community Liaison Officers (CLOs) 
are routinely in the field to socialize the health and safety risks of 
artisanal gold panning. 
PTFI focused on reducing the security risk of illegal gold panners 
interrupting operations in 2013, particularly in the highlands. A 
dedicated liaison officer was appointed to coordinate between PTFI’s 
Security and Community Affairs Departments regarding operational 
changes that may impact the activities of gold panners. In addition, 
enhanced security surveillance systems and fencing have been added 
at the mill to minimize risk of potential human harm and damage to 
assets. The concentrate pipeline system to port also has been protected 
with concrete and a leak detection system was installed.
PTFI’s long-term strategy for reducing illegal gold panning is the 
development of alternative livelihoods. Village-based economic 
development programs including coffee and cocoa cooperatives are 
current areas of work, and the introduction of vegetables and other 
fast-growing crops through intercropping methods to boost income 
is another near-term opportunity. Coordination with government 
authorities and local communities are ongoing and will be key to 
the long-term success of these initiatives.
In 2012, Atma Jaya Catholic University completed a comprehensive 
social baseline study of the illegal artisanal mining community and 
its supporting networks. PTFI researched qualified third parties in 
2013 to help support a stakeholder engagement program with the 
gold panners. Due to the number of risk issues related to illegal 
artisanal mining (safety, health, environmental, security, community) 
and the fact that the activity in the PTFI river system is illegal under 
the laws of the Government of Indonesia and thus sensitive, PTFI 
realizes the role a neutral third party can provide in helping to 
establish better information gathering and communication. 
A third-party firm was subsequently retained in 2014 to continue 
the baseline survey of illegal mining activities and the associated 
stakeholder network. PTFI expects the continued daily data 
gathering and communication to be critical to the understanding of 
potential risks to operations and community relations.

TENKE FUNGURUME MINING
Artisanal mining is widespread throughout the DRC and occurs 
on the TFM concession, where such activities are illegal under 
DRC law. The greatest risks arising from artisanal mining remain 
the safety and security of our employees and the local population, 
including illegal miners (see Security and Human Rights section). 
Near-surface high grade ore is present throughout the concession 
and artisanal miners dig underground adits and tunnels to access ore 
deposits without using protective gear. With an influx of outsiders 
to the area for illegal mining activities, social ills such as increased 
crime rates have been observed.
In 2013, three illegal miners were killed due to tunnel collapses 
within the 1,600-square-kilometer TFM mining concession. During 
the year, TFM experienced a significant increase in overt illegal 
mining activity at night near heavy excavation equipment pursuant 
to mining of new pits near Tenke. TFM also witnessed an increase 
in the number of women, and sometimes children, involved in 
illegal mining activity. Illegal miners are at risk of injury or death 
as they move around heavy excavation equipment without proper 
protection. TFM has reached out to international NGOs and aid 
agencies to determine what support third parties may be able to 
provide to help raise awareness about this issue with the community, 
authorities and local civil society.
As TFM expands operations to additional deposits within its 
concession, the chance of encountering illegal mining activity will 
increase. TFM continues to engage with the DRC authorities to 
operate control measures at the entry and exit points of the concession 
to interdict shipments of illegal ore, and to implement mobile 
security monitoring. TFM CLOs conduct awareness campaigns to 
educate the community on the risks associated with illegal artisanal 
mining activity. TFM’s long-term strategy continues to be support 
for economic development and job creation in the region to provide 
communities with alternative opportunities for income generation. 
TFM welcomes all members of the community to participate in skills 
training, small business and agriculture development.
COMMUNITIES
2013 WORKING TOWARD SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT   |   25
ENVIRONMENT
26  
T
he Freeport-McMoRan Environmental Policy is based on our 
objective to be compliant with laws and regulations and to 
minimize environmental impacts using risk management strategies 
based on valid data and sound science. It requires that we review 
and take account of the environmental effects of each activity, 
whether exploration, mining or processing; and that we plan and 
conduct the design, development, operation and closure of each 
facility in a manner that optimizes the economic use of resources 
while reducing adverse environmental effects.
All of our mining and mineral processing operations maintain 
Environmental Management Systems (EMS) certified to ISO 
14001, which are independently audited on an annual basis. Key 
environmental risks and opportunities also are prioritized in 
operations Sustainable Development Risk Registers and projects 
undergo environmental reviews in early stages via the Project 
Development Sustainability Review process. During 2013, we 
completed internal environmental audits at 10 operations in 
accordance with our Environmental Auditing Policy, and our 
facilities are routinely inspected by regulatory agencies. Since 1996, an 
independent environmental audit has been conducted at PTFI every 
three years, and the 2014 audit’s executive summary and responses to 
audit recommendations will be posted on our website when complete. 
All operations have corrective action programs associated with the 
overarching EMS. 
When operations receive an environmental violation from a 
regulatory agency such as shown in the table below, the citations 
typically relate to brief and minor exceedances of air or water 
permit conditions or other distinct events that may not have permit 
authorization. Notices of violation may also follow offsite spills or 
releases related to tailings, tailings dust or impacted water. Where 
our operations have been assessed for penalties, they typically are 
below $100,000.
ENERGY MANAGEMENT
Our copper mining operations require significant energy inputs, 
principally diesel, purchased power, coal and natural gas, most of 
which is obtained from third parties under long-term contracts. For 
the year 2013, energy represented approximately 20 percent of our 
consolidated copper production costs. From a medium and long-
term perspective, we may experience increased costs relating to our 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions as a result of regulatory initiatives 
in the U.S. and other countries where we operate. In addition, the 
cost of electricity and other inputs that we purchase may increase 
if our suppliers incur increased costs from the regulation of their 
GHG emissions. Although our mining operations are currently 
not located in jurisdictions where there is a direct cost associated 
with our GHG emissions, we have modeled different carbon tax 
scenarios to understand the potential operating cost impacts. We 
cannot predict the magnitude of increased costs with any certainty 
given the wide scope of potential regulatory changes in the many 
countries where we operate.
* Penalties are typically paid in periods subsequent to the year of the environmental event and/or enforcement action.
	
2009	
2010	
2011	
2012	
2013
Reportable spills or releases of hazardous or toxic chemicals	
26	
10	
11	
12	
16
Notices of Violations related to permit exceedences, spills, 	
6	
6	
6	
4	
10
releases or other compliance matters
Environmental penalties* 	
$493,039	
$83,420	
$75,000	
$47,369	
$80,362
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE INDICATORS
Tyrone mine diagnostic mechanic, Royce Parra, conducts real-time performance monitoring 
of heavy mining equipment using Remote Access Monitoring Process (RAMP) technology. 
Implementation of RAMP has resulted in improved fleet reliability through detection and 
prevention of premature equipment failure, as well as the promotion of operating behaviors 
that safely increase the efficiency of material movement.
In 2013, our worldwide total GHG emissions, measured as carbon 
dioxide equivalent emissions, were relatively unchanged from 2012 
at approximately 10 million metric tons divided between direct 
(58 percent) and indirect (42 percent) emissions. Year-to-year our 
direct emissions are primarily from fuel combustion in haul trucks, 
followed by the combustion of fuels to provide energy for roasting, 
smelting and other processes. The majority of our mining activity 
occurs in open pits. As an open pit matures, haul road length 
increases and haul trucks are required to move ore additional 
distances to the processing facility. While the amount of waste 
material moved fluctuates year-to-year, the haul distances are also 
increasing. When market conditions necessitate the mining and 
processing of lower grade ore, haul trucks end up moving more 
material per pound of processed metal. Our current plan to produce 
over 5 billion pounds of copper by 2015 indicates increasing direct 
emissions (both absolute and intensity-based) over that time period. 
Indirect emissions are generally the emissions of providers from 
whom we purchase electricity for use in our operations. In 2013, 
approximately 63 percent of our purchased power was from 
low carbon or renewable sources (we generate all of our power 
at PTFI). Crushing, milling, pumping and electrowinning 
are the most significant power-consuming processes at our 
facilities. Coupled with our expansion projects, purchased power 
consumption is expected to increase as we construct and operate 
new water supply and distribution systems such as our desalination 
plant in Chile and a municipal wastewater treatment plant in Peru. 
However, we achieve significant improvements in energy efficiency 
with our new processing facilities, including new mills at Morenci 
and Cerro Verde. Nevertheless, the efficiency gains do not warrant 
replacing currently operating equipment because that option cannot 
be economically justified.
We continue to engage with energy management experts, industry 
peers and suppliers to discuss the potential for new mining system 
practices that could be employed to economically reduce the energy 
and GHG intensity of future projects. We also participate in utility 
demand side efficiency programs and support renewable energy 
standards when feasible, such as providing mining-related property 
for solar power generation. 
Our specific focus is energy efficiency at our current operations and 
the deployment of new mining and processing technologies at our 
brownfield expansion projects. The Life Cycle Program within our 
Americas mining operations is designed using a similar approach 
that has been successful at PTFI for many years. The program 
has proven that larger equipment can be rebuilt for 
a second life, resulting in like-new productivity and 
cost performance with the benefit of significant capital 
avoidance and overall lower life-cycle environmental 
(energy and GHG) impact when compared to the 
purchase of new equipment. Since 2008, we have 
built our Americas mining CAT 793 fleet to 417 by 
purchasing 117 used trucks from 10 different sources 
from around the globe. Most were at the end of their 
economic life, requiring a full rebuild before being 
placed into operation. We also have rebuilt 34 large 
shovels. All of this equipment maintains superior 
physical availability when placed into operation. 
ENVIRONMENT
2013 WORKING TOWARD SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT   |   27
TFM has invested over $215 million to renovate this hydro-electric power station in the 
DRC, including refurbishment of four turbines. The investment will promote more reliable 
renewable electricity for the region and for TFM operations.
* Associated with the self-generating coal-ﬁred power 
   facility at PTFI.
 
 
2013 DIRECT CARBON DIOXIDE 
EQUIVALENT EMISSIONS
57% Liquid Hydrocarbons
31% Coal*
  6% Gaseous Hydrocarbons
  6% Other
By Fuel Type
 
2013 TOTAL CARBON DIOXIDE 
EQUIVALENT EMISSIONS 
44% North America
30% Indonesia
21% South America
  3% Africa
  2% Europe
By Region Type
We have received independent verification of our GHG emissions 
inventory for years 2007-2013, and the verification statement is 
available on our website.
ENVIRONMENT
28  
WATER SUPPLY AND MANAGEMENT*
Our mining operations require significant quantities of water 
for mining and ore processing, and most of our operations in 
North and South America are in water scarce regions. We used 
approximately 690 million cubic meters of water in our operating 
processes in 2013, of which approximately 69 percent was recycled 
water. Our overall water use, including recycled water, has 
remained relatively constant during the past five years, although 
we expect our absolute water use to increase in the future as we 
advance brownfield growth projects. 
Mining sites in water-stressed regions maintain water balance 
models to better understand water uses and to identify system 
losses (such as evaporation losses) within the operation. Although 
the potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations 
are highly uncertain, operations in water-stressed regions also 
conduct annual scenario planning to evaluate hypothetical 
reductions of total water availability and hypothetical extreme 
precipitation events. This program aims to help us plan 
to adapt operations to possible water shortages or surpluses. We 
also have conducted a retrospective evaluation of production 
impacts associated with above-normal precipitation events during 
2013. These impacts to production are temporary as the in-process 
metals are available when improved operational conditions exist. 
Access to clean water is a critical concern of many users, from 
communities to agricultural and industrial interests. In addition to 
evaluating opportunities 
to improve site water
management, we explore 
mutual opportunities 
with stakeholders as we 
continue to make long-
term investments in water 
supply projects to support 
our operating and growth 
plans. We also are 
participating in efforts such 
as ICMM’s Water Working 
Group to share ideas and 
experiences associated with 
water management and 
stakeholder engagement 
within the mining sector.
Water for our Cerro Verde mining operation in Peru, which is in 
a water stressed region, comes from renewable sources through a 
series of storage reservoirs on the Rio Chili watershed that collect 
water primarily from seasonal precipitation. Its existing tailings 
storage facility is among the world’s best in terms of water recovery. 
The operation is constructing a wastewater treatment plant for the 
city of Arequipa, Peru, as it progresses its large-scale expansion, 
and has obtained authorization to reuse an annual average of one 
cubic meter per second of the treated water. The plant is expected 
to improve regional water quality, reduce waterborne illnesses and 
enhance the value of local agricultural products while providing 
water for an economically important project for the region.
Mining and metals processing can create impacts to water quality. 
We use technologies and other management methods like 
geochemical characterizations to identify design and management 
opportunities that will minimize these impacts. Where impacts 
cannot be avoided, our operations use containment strategies to 
ensure we do not affect offsite water resources. All operations 
maintain systems to monitor water quality for compliance with 
applicable regulations and permit requirements. We also maintain 
spill control and response procedures to prevent or minimize 
potential impacts to water.
In 2013, the Bagdad mine in Arizona completed construction of the world’s largest elevated 
tailings thickener. The thickener will allow higher volumes of water to be recovered, as well 
as minimization of seepage and evaporation losses from the tailings storage facility.
* Water-related data in this section exclude amounts associated with all facilities 	
   located in Arizona due to ongoing water rights litigation.
* Includes desalination water, municipal water, 
   municipal waste water and water imported from 
   any other industrial or mining facility.
 
2013 WATER USE BY SOURCE
69% Recycled Water
21% Surface/Ground Water
  8% Storm Water
  2% Other Water*
690 Million Cubic Meters
TAILINGS AND WASTE ROCK
The waste rock (including overburden) and tailings that we 
produce represent our largest volume waste. Managing the volume 
of waste rock and tailings produced in our mining operations 
presents significant environmental, safety and engineering 
challenges. In 2013, we produced approximately 480 million and 
210 million metric tons of waste rock and tailings, respectively. The 
primary risks associated with managing waste rock stockpiles and 
tailings relate to structural stability, geochemistry and subsequent 
water quality (acid rock drainage) as well as dust generation. 
Management of this waste is regulated in the jurisdictions where 
we operate, and our programs are designed to be in compliance 
with applicable national, state and local laws, permits and approved 
Environmental Impact Studies.
Freeport-McMoRan currently operates 16 tailings storage facilities 
(TSFs) and manages 60 TSFs that are inactive or have been fully 
reclaimed. At Cerro Verde, we have commenced construction 
on an expansion expected to increase annual copper production 
by 600 million pounds and annual molybdenum production by 
15 million pounds beginning in 2016. The project will triple the 
capacity of the concentrator facilities to 360,000 metric tons of ore 
per day. The associated increased quantity of ore processed will 
require construction of one of the largest TSFs in the global mining 
sector, with a targeted capacity to retain approximately two billion 
metric tons of material. We also have advanced a project to increase 
annual copper production by 225 million pounds at our Morenci 
operation in Arizona. As a result of the Morenci mill expansion and 
additional ore processing, we plan to increase the operation’s TSF 
capacity by approximately 568 million metric tons. 
At TSFs located in arid areas, the tailings management program 
includes measures to reduce fugitive dust emissions from the 
surface of tailings impoundments, and increase reclaimed water 
capture to reduce freshwater consumption. Our efforts to limit 
dust generation, such as the application of magnesium chloride, 
polymers, watering and wind fencing have resulted in a reduction 
in reportable air permit exceedances related to windblown dust 
from TSFs; four events in 2013 compared to five in the prior year. 
The reportable dust events in 2013, all related to unfavorable 
weather, were at the approximate 3,000 acre TSF at our Sierrita 
mine in Arizona in spite of the significant dust prevention program 
we implement using multiple techniques and technologies. 
TSF stability is managed by qualified internal and external 
engineers at our operations, utilizing instrumentation with 
manual and automated data acquisition systems and established 
operations, maintenance and communication protocols. We 
monitor phreatic level trends, deposition plans, hydrologic controls, 
seepage management, decant systems, structural integrity and other 
stability components. Oversight of TSF stability takes place under 
the direction of Company management, which has established a 
Tailing Stewardship Program that includes an interdisciplinary 
group of internal and external experts to evaluate and confirm 
that TSFs are designed, operated and maintained using good 
stewardship practices. In 2013, our Tailing Stewardship Program 
conducted annual field inspections at 13 active and 37 inactive 
TSFs. We have also established a Tailing Review Board, by 
which we retain internationally-recognized experts to provide 
independent expertise and verify that our approach to dam stability 
is consistent with current state-of-the-practice.
In February 2013, a spill of approximately 1,000 metric tons of 
tailing from a pipeline near the Ojos del Salado operation in Chile 
impacted an irrigation channel in the community of Tierra Amarilla. 
Regulatory agencies and affected community members were 
promptly notified. Restoration of local impacts to farmland, which 
commenced after spill containment, has been completed.
At PTFI we use riverine transport of material from the 
concentrating complex in the mountains to a designated engineered 
and managed deposition zone in the lowlands and coastal zone as 
approved by the Government of Indonesia. PTFI’s tailings 
management review board meets to assess operational and other 
monitoring data to make specific operational recommendations for 
improving levee designs and construction and system-wide 
performance. We frequently engage with stakeholders ranging 
from the SRI community to academia and local communities on our 
ENVIRONMENT
2013 WORKING TOWARD SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT   |   29
The Upper Mammoth Tailing Dam in Bagdad, Arizona is an expansion to the original dam 
built in 1985. The dam, constructed using the centerline method, will provide for up to 18 
years of tailings storage before reaching its maximum capacity.
ENVIRONMENT
30  
controlled riverine tailings management system. Our stakeholder 
engagement frequently includes dialogue regarding the predicted 
environmental impacts in the Ajkwa estuary and the multiple lines 
of evidence demonstrating reversibility of the impacts. A multi-year 
bird monitoring study (see page 31) is one indicator of estuary health 
during current mining operations. More information on controlled 
riverine tailings management at PTFI is available on our website. 
Waste rock and overburden are managed in stockpiles for possible 
future mineral recovery, reclamation or other projects. Overburden 
and waste rock stockpiles are evaluated for structural stability and 
local seismic design criteria and are monitored regularly.
RECLAMATION 
Mine reclamation is the process of taking land once used by the 
operation and converting it into alternate land uses. Reclamation 
takes into account surface and ground water and air quality, erosion 
concerns from storm water, revegetation of suitable plant species 
and rehabilitation of wildlife habitats. Alternate land uses in mine 
reclamation include open space, wildlife habitat, grazing habitat, 
recreation and educational areas, renewable energy sites, industrial 
land and other economically or ecologically productive land uses. 
We monitor reclaimed lands to ensure they are developing 
consistent with post-mining land use. Landscape Function Analysis 
(LFA) monitoring is used to assess how well certain reclamation 
areas are functioning as a natural system. Data generated allows 
for comparisons between reclaimed lands and native surrounding 
areas (reference sites) which represent mature native functional 
landscapes, and provide target values for the final reclaimed 
landscape. In 2013, we completed LFAs on three reclamation units, 
bringing the total to 10 since inception of the monitoring program.
Large-scale reclamation projects continued during 2013 at our 
Miami mine in Arizona, where more than 1,000 acres are being 
reclaimed. Renewed mining at Miami has produced an effective 
operational synergy between mining and reclamation activities. The 
non-mineralized overburden material being mined to develop the 
remaining ore body has been utilized as cover material for stockpile 
and tailings reclamation. At the historic Bisbee mining district in 
Arizona, reclamation crews and environmental experts continue work 
on major voluntary reclamation projects encompassing approximately 
1,100 acres, including stockpiles and tailings impoundments. We 
advanced large-scale tailings reclamation efforts during the year at 
the Chino mine in New Mexico, where, in coordination with the 
oversight of state agencies, we are nearing completion of reclaiming 
approximately 2,000 acres of tailings and a former smelter-related 
area, which are no longer needed for our operations. 
The Company voluntarily initiated a project near our Climax 
molybdenum mine to remove and reclaim historic waste rock piles 
in the Tenmile Mining District near Leadville, Colorado even 
though we have no liability for the sites. As of 2013, 41 historic 
mine sites have been cleaned-up and 37 have been completely 
reclaimed. Nearly 230,000 cubic yards of waste rock and soils were 
removed and 50 acres of land restored. 
In 2013, we continued our 5-year, $2.5 million commitment to assist 
the Colorado Inactive Mine Reclamation program. The financial 
commitment will help the state seek additional funding from 
government agencies and non-profit environmental organizations 
for work on abandoned mine lands that are not associated with our 
current or prior operations. 
BIODIVERSITY
We are committed to identifying the impacts of our operations 
and, where practicable, implementing actions that conserve 
and enhance biodiversity. All operating mines have developed 
Biodiversity Action Plans (BAPs) and Land Management Plans 
(LMPs), with the assistance of our corporate Biodiversity Task 
Force (BTF). BAPs identify potential biodiversity projects 
through a process that includes landscape-scale habitat inventory, 
assessment of biodiversity risks (linked with the operation’s 
Environmental Management System), identification of biodiversity 
opportunities, and prioritization of projects. BAPs generally consist 
of voluntary projects conducted in partnership with stakeholder 
groups, including government agencies, academic institutions and 
NGOs. LMPs provide the mechanism through which biodiversity 
considerations are incorporated into the site-specific planning 
process to minimize adverse impacts to biodiversity where 
practicable. LMPs consist of data overlays that illustrate the location 
The Maurujaya MP21 Reclamation and Biodiversity Research Center is a tailings reclamation 
research facility where PTFI conducts comprehensive scientific studies to determine 
optimum plant species and planting techniques to maximize reclamation success. The center 
also functions as an educational study and observation area for agriculture, fishery and 
forestry, as well as biodiversity within the PTFI project area.
and extent of significant biodiversity resources within and adjacent 
to mine sites. In 2014, the BTF is initiating a review to evaluate 
and identify improvement opportunities for site implementation of 
BAPs and LMPs.
In 2013, all North American sites developed and began 
implementing site-specific Wildlife Protection Plans (WPPs)
in accordance with the Corporate Wildlife Protection Plan, 
which formalizes the corporate commitment to protecting 
biodiversity. The WPPs establish a process through which 
sites assess potential risks to wildlife associated with operational 
activities and develop measures and strategies to minimize 
any risks that are identified. In conjunction with the BAPs and 
LMPs, the WPPs represent an important component of the 
Freeport-McMoRan biodiversity program.
As of December 2013, 11 Freeport-McMoRan sites were certified 
by the Wildlife Habitat Council (WHC) Wildlife at Work program, 
which recognizes activities that create, conserve and restore wildlife 
habitat on corporate lands, and five sites were certified by the 
WHC Corporate Lands for Learning program, which recognizes 
activities to promote environmental education and outreach 
initiatives in local communities. Cerro Verde was also nominated 
for the 2013 Corporate Habitat of the Year Award. In Colorado, 
we are working with Trout Unlimited and the Colorado Division 
of Reclamation, Mining and Safety to restore historic abandoned 
mines that are impacting fish habitats, even though we have no 
liability for the sites. 
In 2013, the Arizona Game and Fish Commission awarded the 
Company its Award of Excellence for environmental stewardship 
and wildlife management, specifically noting the Mexican free-
tail bat habitat conservation efforts at Morenci. During the year, 
the U.S. Mine Safety Health Administration–Arizona State Mine 
Inspector also awarded Morenci the Best Reclamation Project 
award for closing over 300 mine opening and adits around the 
historic mining district. The project not only promotes public 
safety, but bat gates installed at larger openings promote bat 
conservation efforts in the region. Cerro Verde also hosted a 
workshop involving a number of international experts to 
promote management of the Peruvian long-snouted bat. In 
addition, 14 of our operations have created pollinator gardens 
not only to increase the diversity of nectar and pollen sources 
but also to provide communities with a setting to promote 
concepts of STEM education.
We continue to closely monitor the developing concepts around 
ecosystem services. In 2013, we participated in Business for Social 
Responsibility workshops and initiatives related to ecosystem 
services assessment tools and, along with several other large multi-
national corporations, worked to address definitions, indicators, and 
disclosures used to define and understand ecosystem service risks 
and opportunities. We also participate in the ICMM Biodiversity 
Working Group. As this field evolves, we will continue to enhance 
communications on our biodiversity systems and initiatives.
PTFI maintains a comprehensive environmental monitoring 
program throughout its project area, including the estuary 
downstream of the Modified Ajkwa Deposition Area (ModADA). 
Independent lines of evidence continue to indicate the reversible 
nature of impacts at the end of mining (with the exception 
of topographical changes) as predicted during the AMDAL 
(Environmental and Social Impact Assessment) process.
During operation of the active controlled riverine tailings 
management system, new lands are forming in the estuary. Ajkwa 
Island, for example, was formed out of a sedimentation process 
consisting largely of fine tailings escaping the ModADA into the 
Ajkwa River estuary. The island became vegetated by native species 
through natural succession processes beginning in 1996 and plant 
species composition and maturity have since increased. Since PTFI 
began quarterly monitoring of bird species utilizing the island in 
2009, the number of species observed annually has increased from 
42 to 77 in 2013. Since 2012, 50 new bird species have been recorded 
on the island, and in total the monitoring program has identified 93 
species. This positive trend demonstrates the health of the estuary and 
its ability to support the ecosystem requirements of these avian species.
ENVIRONMENT
2013 WORKING TOWARD SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT   |   31
The Salar de Ascotán springs are a biologically diverse wetland habitat. Environmental 
engineers regularly monitor the water quality and quantity to ensure the springs remain a 
thriving habitat. Pictured above, Andean flamingos (foreground) and a vicuña (background).
ENVIRONMENT
32  
Since 2011, Freeport-McMoRan employees have participated in the Company’s annual biodiversity photo contest. Winning photos 
from the popular contest are showcased within the Wildlife Habitat Council’s Corporate Homes for Wildlife calendar, which is 
distributed internationally. The calendar showcases efforts by member companies to enhance and conserve wildlife habitat on 
corporate lands. Winning photos selected by the Company’s Biodiversity Task Force are presented below.
2011 Winning Photos
(left) Female White-belted 
Ringtail dragonfly at the 
Morenci mine
(right) Group of Andean 
flamingos standing in a 

salt lake in the Atacama 
Desert in Chile, 

near El Abra
2012 Winning Photos
(left) Female Oasis 
Hummingbird near the 
Cerro Verde mine
(right) Green Tree 

Python at PTFI
2013 Winning Photos
(left) Young African Flap-
necked Chameleon balanced 
on a flower near Tenke 
Fungurume Mining
(right) Female Black Sunbird 
perched on a Heliconia 
flower in Kuala Kencana 
near PTFI
NAME
2013 WORKING TOWARD SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT   |   33
TREND DATA
(a­
) Includes FM O&G for period June 1, 2013, through December 31, 2013. 
(b) TRIR = [(Fatalities + Lost Time Incidents + Restricted Duty Incidents + Medical Treatment) x 200,000] / Total Hours Worked. 
(c) Excludes all facilities located in Arizona due to ongoing water rights litigation.
(d) Penalties are typically paid in periods subsequent to the year of the environmental event and/or enforcement action. 
(e) Please see detailed information in our WTSD reports published on www.fcx.com/sd.
TREND DATA
2009
2010
2011
2012
        2013
Workforce(a)
Employees 
28,400
29,700
31,800
34,000
36,100
Contractors 
16,600
22,300
27,800
27,100
38,400
Percent Employees Under Collective Bargaining Agreements
45%
44%
49%
48%
49%
Safety & Health(a)
Fatalities 
3
2
5
6
35
Total Recordable Incident Rate(b)
0.74
0.65
0.61
0.58
0.74
Occupational Illness Cases
9
6
16
25
41
Environment
Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions (million metric tons)
5.2
5.6
5.4
5.7
5.9
Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions (million metric tons)
4.4
4.4
4.6
4.0
4.3
Total Water Consumption(c) (million cubic meters)
620
630
600
665
690
Percent Recycled Water
66%
66%
66%
71%
69%
Reportable spills or releases of hazardous or toxic chemicals
26
10
11
12
16
Notices of Violations related to permit exceedances, spills, 
releases or other compliance matters
6
6
6
4
10
Environmental Penalties(d) ($ thousands)
$     493
$       83
$       75
$       47
$       80
Social
Community Investments ($ millions)
$     180
$     189
$     191
$     173
$     173  
Cash Payments to Governments(e) ($ millions)
$  2,432
$  3,744
$  4,838
$  2,984
    $  2,814(a)
Direct Economic Contributions(e) ($ millions)
$15,040
$13,902
$16,559
$14,470
$17,283(a)
