OUR APPROACH
The nature of our business impacts the environment and communities surrounding our operations. We mitigate impacts 
to the extent practicable through state-of-the-art control and remediation measures. We develop infrastructure, support 
health, safety and education efforts, and provide local employment and business development opportunities. The 
products we produce are critical for sustainability and higher standards of living. To supply essential natural resources 
to current and future generations, we are guided by our stated business objectives, principles and policies, and we 
continuously strive to improve our sustainable development programs. 
OUR APPROACH HAS THREE CORE ELEMENTS
ECONOMIC
Leverage our operating 
and financial expertise, 
technologies and supply 
chain to ensure that 
we remain a vibrant, 
sustainable business entity.
ENVIRONMENTAL
Evaluate environmental 
aspects 
continuously 
throughout a project’s life 
cycle to minimize adverse 

impacts and promote 
opportunities.
SOCIAL
Operate safely, and uphold and respect human rights. 
Engage openly and transparently with internal and 
external stakeholders and keep our commitments 
in order to build trust. This enhances our ability to 
obtain permits to operate and ensures we have a 
dedicated workforce.
O
n a frequent basis, we participate in various venues where multiple parties discuss 
a range of critical issues confronting the mining sector. Some say the sector faces 
extreme challenges over the near to medium term and that the sector must adopt new 
business models, increase innovation, partner with communities, and find new ways of 
engaging with stakeholders.  
At Freeport-McMoRan we have a very bright future. We have a dynamic portfolio of
long-lived mining assets and are positioned to respond to society’s demand for copper
– a fundamental material used in numerous products relied upon by consumers 
everywhere, including those around the globe looking to improve their standard of living. 
As a leading mining company with global operations, we recognize and acknowledge 
the challenges we face. We also know that we must work hard every day to improve our 
operations because mines of the future will require innovative technology to lower costs, 
increased stakeholder engagement combined with private/public partnerships for social 
investments, and responsiveness to various risks and opportunities that can affect timely 
resource development.
The principles of safe production provide us with a solid foundation upon which to 
build mines that will be thriving decades from now. We take advantage of economies 
of scale and capital efficiency while utilizing technologies to drive cost and efficiency 
improvements. Freeport-McMoRan employees are ambassadors for sustainable 
development within their own communities and provide a nexus to informed community 
acceptance of our business. Our mines will continue to be developed through sincere 
relationships built on trust and hard work for the benefit of all concerned. Throughout this 
report, we report the daily progress our workforce is making on key issues, including some 
emerging, which affect our Company and our stakeholders.
Freeport-McMoRan 
Oil & Gas LLC 
This WTSD report primarily focuses 
on our mining and metals operations 
which are implementing programs 
developed in alignment with the 
ICMM Sustainable Development 
Framework. While our oil and 
gas operations are excluded from 
the boundary of this framework, 
FM O&G operates in accordance with 
all Freeport-McMoRan policies and 
governance structures. Operating 
in a highly-regulated industry 
in the U.S., FM O&G maintains 
audited safety and environmental 
management systems and emergency 
response procedures. The business 
also maintains stakeholder 
engagement mechanisms, primarily 
surrounding our onshore operations 
near high density populations.
6 
PRINCIPLES OF BUSINESS CONDUCT
The overarching values detailed in our Principles of Business Conduct 
set forth the global system of principles that our workforce must follow 
in all activities – from complying with laws and avoiding conflicts 
of interest to developing positive relationships in local communities. 
The Freeport-McMoRan Supplier Code of Conduct sets forth our 
expectations for our supply chain partners in areas including safety, 
anti-corruption, environment and human rights.
Our supporting policies, along with external standards and 
initiatives, form the overall framework that guides our sustainability 
programs. Supporting this framework are internal governance and 
management systems that provide the details on how we operate.
GOVERNANCE
The Freeport-McMoRan Board of Directors (board) as a whole is 
responsible for risk oversight, with reviews of certain areas being 
conducted by the relevant board committees that report to the full 
board. In its risk oversight role, the board reviews, evaluates and 
discusses with appropriate members of management whether the risk 
management processes designed and implemented by management 
are adequate in identifying, assessing, managing and mitigating 
material risks facing the Company. In addition, as reflected in our 
Principles of Business Conduct, the board seeks to establish a “tone 
at the top” communicating the board’s strong commitment to 
ethical behavior.
Board committees assist the board in fulfilling its oversight 
responsibilities with respect to certain areas of risk. Each committee 
regularly reports on these matters to the full board. The Corporate 
Responsibility Committee of our board is responsible for overseeing 
our policies and programs related to management of risks associated 
with the Company’s safety and health policies and programs, 
environmental policy and implementation programs, human rights 
policy and practices, community health programs and related 
public health and medical matters, community policy and practices, 
governmental and stakeholder relations and social investment and 
sustainable development programs, charitable contributions, and 
political activity and spending practices. The committee examines key 
performance data and receives briefings concerning challenges and 
emerging issues in these areas.
During 2014, the Corporate Responsibility Committee received 
various reports and considered numerous items with a particular focus 
on safety, which included reviewing the root causes of fatal accidents, 
corrective actions implemented to prevent accidents in the future, 
enhancements to our fatality prevention program and improvement 
in our safety procedures and practices. In addition, during the year, 
the Corporate Responsibility Committee reviewed the 2014 external 
environmental audit of PTFI’s operations, community public health 
services including our malaria prevention programs in Indonesia 
and the DRC, and cholera response efforts and clean water program 
in the DRC, global social programs and expenditures, community 
engagement efforts, habitat  restoration and enhancement, various 
wildlife preservation programs sponsored by our Company, and 
political activity and spending practices. The Corporate Responsibility 
Committee reports to our board, which provides oversight on all 
matters, including the economic viability of our Company – the first 
element of our approach to sustainable development.
The board believes that full and open communication between senior 
management and the board is essential to effective risk oversight. 
Our chairman and our vice chairmen regularly meet and discuss with 
senior management a variety of matters including business strategies, 
opportunities, key challenges and risks facing the Company, as 
well as management’s risk mitigation strategies. The board oversees 
the strategic direction of our Company, and in doing so considers 
the potential rewards and risks of our business opportunities and 
challenges, and monitors the development and management of risks 
that impact our strategic goals.
Our executive compensation program is designed and managed by 
the independent Compensation Committee of our board. During 
2014, the committee developed a scorecard to measure environmental 
and social responsibility performance for 2015. For the scorecard 
the committee considered the environmental performance with 
respect to environmental penalties, reportable spills and releases, 
and notices of violation. With regard to the social responsibility 
category, the committee considered a corporate-level human rights 
impact assessment to further integrate the UN Guiding Principles 
on Business and Human Rights into our programs, investment in 
community programs, and third-party feedback and recognition 
of sustainability programs. Safety performance, measured by total 
recordable incident rate, continues to be evaluated as part of our 
executive compensation program.
OUR APPROACH
7   
2014 WORKING TOWARD SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT LEADERSHIP TEAM
The Freeport-McMoRan Sustainable Development Leadership 
Team provides strategic and operational guidance regarding our 
sustainability commitments. The team is sponsored by our Executive 
Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer, and is led by 
our Vice President of Environmental Services and Sustainable 
Development. The team includes business unit presidents and senior 
personnel from the safety, supply chain, human resources, sales, 
compliance, and land and water functions.
During 2014, the team reviewed and addressed key issues and 
projects including:
• 
Updates to the Company’s Health and Safety, Environmental, 
Human Rights and Community policies to reflect our sustainable 
development program commitments today 
• 
Review of the process and results of a corporate-level human rights 
impact assessment (HRIA) and planning for a site-level HRIA at 
our TFM operation in the DRC
• 
Monitoring emerging regulations and initiatives related to product 
stewardship and access to markets
• 
Reviewing long-term water management and supply projects
• 
Reviewing materiality prioritization of reporting aspects, 
considering stakeholder input, in preparation to report according to 
the GRI G4 guidelines beginning with the 2015 WTSD report
• 
Implementation of the ICMM Sustainable Development 
Framework, including observations and recommendations from 
our site-level external assurance program
• 
Evaluating a variety of topics and learnings through participation in 
peer to peer, multi-industry associations with a sustainability focus
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Project planning and our project life-cycles can span decades. We 
consider early and effective engagement with stakeholders critical for 
creating mutually beneficial opportunities and reducing sustainability 
risks to our plans. Accordingly, we seek strategic partnerships with 
host governments, communities and development partners to ensure 
the viability of our projects while delivering meaningful benefits. 
Freeport-McMoRan’s corporate Sustainable Development 
Department and senior personnel regularly work with the 
socially responsible investment community and nongovernmental 
organizations (NGOs) through in-person meetings and site visits, 
teleconferences, inquiries via email and conferences. In 2014, 
our corporate team engaged with over 50 investor organizations, 
sustainability analyst firms, banking institutions and NGOs on topics 
including fatality prevention, environmental management, revenue 
transparency, human rights, resettlement programs, water resources 
and community development.
Our operational-level teams regularly engage locally with community 
stakeholders, development institutions and NGOs. Mining 
operations maintain 5-year community engagement and development 
plans that identify affected or interested parties and programs 
for ongoing engagement and consultation. Issues raised through 
stakeholder engagement help inform the risks and opportunities 
identified in each operation’s sustainable development risk register 
and assist in developing social investment strategies. Resulting 
engagements with hundreds of entities occur via community 
foundations, formal grievance systems, workshops, participatory 
group panels or focus groups, town hall meetings and surveys. 
Engagement with stakeholders also occurs through regulatory 
consultation processes with local governments and community 
groups, including indigenous peoples, as part of expansion plans for 
our copper business. 
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP
Interest in environmental and social performance within the value 
chain is rising among stakeholder groups. We view this trend as an 
opportunity to engage on the critical importance of our products for 
a sustainable future as well as on the performance of our operations. 
However, we want to communicate effectively and efficiently, and are 
cautious of the potential for redundant or unnecessary regulations, 
policies, initiatives or ad-hoc requests for information concerning our 
products and sustainability within our operations. 
To remain a viable business entity, we must maintain market access 
for our products over the long term. As such, we have established 
a multi-functional coordination team that regularly coordinates to 
address an agenda that includes: 
• 
Responsiveness to due diligence information requests from value 
chain members
OUR APPROACH
Former Minister of Energy and Mines of Peru, Eleodoro Mayorga (third from the left), and 
Cerro Verde management observe the construction of a wastewater treatment plant 
that will enhance water quality in the Arequipa region. The plant will supplement current 
water supplies to support the expansion of concentrator facilities to 360,000 metric tons 
of ore per day. 
8 
• 
Analysis and input regarding emerging regulations, policies or 
initiatives
• 
Tracking and interfacing on the product stewardship work of the 
International Copper Association, ICMM, Cobalt Development 
Institute, International Molybdenum Association and other 
organizations
• 
Proactive communications in the value chain and with other 
stakeholders concerning common stewardship and sustainability 
performance attributes of our products and operations, respectively
• 
Mandatory compliance requirements
While the product stewardship function reports to our Vice President 
of Environmental Services and Sustainable Development, it is 
coordinated with our product sales teams. We engage with both 
downstream customers and international governmental agencies on 
sustainability and address specific environmental and public health 
areas of interest that affect access to markets for our various products. 
AUDITS AND ASSESSMENTS
To ensure our policy commitments and objectives are being met, 
we implement a combination of audit and assessment programs 
along with an annual program for site-level assurance of the ICMM 
Sustainable Development Framework. Every major operation 
undergoes a comprehensive internal audit (including contractors) 
of environmental and health and safety systems at least once every 
two years. Our operations also are routinely inspected by regulatory 
agencies or ministries of host governments. The health and safety 
management systems and environmental management systems of our 
operations obtain independent certification to Occupational Health 
and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001 and International 
Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001, respectively. 
These systems include corrective and preventive action tracking 
for internal and external audit findings. The most recent triennial 
external environmental audit at PTFI was completed in 2014 and the 
summary results are available on our website. Customers or financial 
institutions also request to conduct, from time to time, sustainability 
focused audits or assessments at certain facilities depending on 
geographic location and life-cycle stage. As we progress our 
implementation of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and 
Human Rights, we have commenced a site-level human rights impact 
assessment at our TFM operation in the DRC.
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT RISK REGISTER
The Freeport-McMoRan Sustainable Development framework is 
designed for alignment with the ICMM Sustainable Development 
Framework and implemented based on site-specific factors and 
influences. Since 2009, our framework has continued to evolve and 
varies in maturity of its implementation at operations. Essential to 
our framework is the Sustainable Development Risk Register process, 
which prioritizes safety, environmental, social, economic and value 
chain challenges and opportunities based on our views of potential 
impacts to our business and the importance of these topics to 
stakeholders. As part of this process, local management teams utilize 
a matrix with consequence categories including potential safety, 
community, environmental and production impacts. Our Sustainable 
Development Department works with operational management 
teams to review processes to ensure prioritization of key business risks 
and implementation of associated action and monitoring plans. On an 
annual basis, a corporate, cross-functional team of senior personnel 
reviews the Sustainable Development Risk Registers of our major 
operations. This process provides a mechanism to ensure risk profiles 
are commonly understood at the operating and corporate levels.
Resulting sustainability focus areas identified through this 
Sustainable Development Risk Register process are reviewed 
annually by our Sustainable Development Leadership Team and 
communicated to the Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Corporate 
Responsibility Committee of the board. The focus areas have not 
changed significantly over recent years and are described on the 
following pages and throughout the report. 
Cobalt hydroxide production at Tenke Fungurume Mining
OUR APPROACH
9   
2014 WORKING TOWARD SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT
SUSTAINABILITY FOCUS AREAS
ARTISANAL MINING 
Illegal artisanal and small-scale miners have limited equipment and expertise with respect to operating in hazardous conditions and can create 
social and environmental impacts, including placing their own health and safety at risk. (p. 27)
BIODIVERSITY
We own, lease and operate large land holdings around the world, some of which are in and adjacent to areas of high biodiversity value. We 
manage our operations in a manner to identify impacts and, where practicable, implement actions that conserve and enhance biodiversity, 
including reclamation activities. (p. 32)
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT
Our social and economic development programs are responsive to issues raised by communities, including vulnerable groups such as indigenous 
peoples, and help us maintain good relations and avoid disruptions of operations. Nevertheless, social and political instability in the areas of our 
operations may adversely impact our operations. (p. 23)
CORRUPTION
As a company with global operations, our business may be adversely affected by issues related to corruption. Our international operations must 
comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws of the other jurisdictions in which we 
operate. Any violation of these laws could result in significant criminal or civil fines and penalties, litigation, and loss of operating licenses or 
permits, and may damage our reputation. (p. 18)
ENERGY MANAGEMENT
Carbon-based energy is a significant input in our operations, and our revenues include significant sales of oil, NGLs and gas, and other carbon-
based energy products. Increased regulation of greenhouse gas emissions may increase our costs and may also affect the demand for our products. 
We have modeled multiple carbon tax scenarios to understand possible impacts, or the range of possible increases to our operating costs. (p. 28)
HUMAN RIGHTS
Our operations may be adversely affected by impacts from security risks stemming from events or activities including political instability, labor 
strikes, illegal artisanal mining and civil strife. The Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights serve as guidelines for our security and 
human rights programs, interactions with host government police and military personnel, and with private security contractors. We also are 
integrating the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights into our business systems. (p. 20)
Artisanal mining activity within the TFM concession
10 
SUSTAINABILITY FOCUS AREAS
LABOR RELATIONS
As of December 31, 2014, 48 percent of our global labor force was covered by collective bargaining agreements and 28 percent of our global 
labor force was covered by agreements that will expire during 2015, including the agreement covering employees at our Indonesia operations. 
We continue to engage openly with our employees and union leadership to successfully negotiate labor agreements recognizing that prolonged 
strikes or other work stoppages at our operations can adversely affect our business and local and regional stakeholders. (p. 14) 
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP
Our product stewardship team engages both downstream customers and international governmental agencies on sustainability topics. The 
team also addresses specific environmental and public health areas of interest that affect access to markets for our products within the value 
chain. (p. 8)
SAFETY AND HEALTH
The safety of our workforce at all of our operations is our highest priority. Although we achieved the lowest Total Recordable Incident Rate in 
the Company’s history, we sadly incurred seven fatalities in 2014. We work continuously to eliminate fatalities by identifying and implementing 
critical controls reinforced by technical training and communications throughout the workforce. (p. 15)
TAILINGS AND WASTE ROCK MANAGEMENT	
Managing the volume of waste rock, leach material and tailings produced in our mining operations presents significant environmental, safety 
and engineering challenges and risks. We maintain large leach pads and tailings impoundments containing viscous material, which are effectively 
large dams that must be engineered, constructed and monitored to assure structural stability and avoid leakages or structural collapse. Our tailings 
impoundments in arid areas maintain programs to suppress fugitive dust emissions. (p. 30)
WATER SUPPLY AND MANAGEMENT
Most of our operations in North America and South America are in arid areas and access to quality water supplies is significant to multiple 
stakeholders, including local communities. We maintain programs to promote efficient use of water and are advancing alternative water supply 
projects. We also maintain systems to control acid rock drainage. (p. 30)
Monitoring reclaimed overburden stockpiles at PTFI
11   
2014 WORKING TOWARD SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT
PERFORMANCE TARGETS
2014 
Status
2014 Performance Description
Target 
Date
Business Ethics
With our online training module, annually train 90% 
of targeted employees who interact with, or have 
the potential to interact with, government officials 
on anti-corruption laws, regulations and Company 
policies and procedures
√
96% of targeted employees completed the anti-corruption online 

training course.
Annually 
Recurring
Workforce
Increase the percentage of women in our workforce, 
including representation in managerial positions, 
to 15%
X
Women comprise 10% of our employee population and hold 11% 
of all managerial positions, which is relatively unchanged from 
recent years.
Ongoing
Safety & Health 
Incur zero fatalitiesa
 X
Sadly, we incurred seven work-related fatalities at our mining 
operations in 2014.
Annually 
Recurring
Meet company-wide total recordable incident rate 
(TRIR)a of 0.61
 √
Our TRIRa was 0.56 for 2014, a company record.
Annually 
Recurring
Human Rights
Incur zero grossb human rights violations at our 
operations caused by employees and contractors
 √
We did not incur any gross human rights violations at our 
operations caused by employees or contractors. For more 
information on our human rights programs, please see page 
20 of this report and our Voluntary Principles on Security and 
Human Rights 2014 Report to the Plenary on our website.
Annually 
Recurring
Communities
Invest (in aggregate) 1% of the average of the 
previous three years annual mining operations 
revenue, as reported in Freeport-McMoRan’s 
audited consolidated financial statements, in 
community programs, including in-kind support 
and administration (2014 target of $199 million)
 √
Approximately $198 million was invested in community 
programs across our operations (99% of our target), relatively 
unchanged from the prior year despite lower commodity prices. 
Annually 
Recurring
Implement at least two new community programs 
that are directed at supporting the development 
of women
√
We have advanced women’s economic empowerment programs, 
including entrepreneurial training for Native American women; 
a women’s leadership program to promote advancement in the 
private and public sectors; and a program aimed at increasing 
interest and achievement in science, technology, engineering, 
mathematics (STEM) among girls and women.
2014
Work with regional and local governments, 
community stakeholders, private sector developer(s) 
and businesses, to commence construction of 
town infrastructure and residential housing in 
the Integrated Development Zone in our TFM 
concession to support sustainable urban growth
On 
Schedule
A Strategic Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (SESA) 
was conducted in 2014 on the Integrated Development Zone (IDZ) 
concept. The sustainability risk management strategies derived 
from the SESA are being incorporated into the IDZ project design.
2016
Environment
Incur zero significant environmental events 
(rating of three or higher on Sustainable 
Development Risk Register)
√
We did not incur any significant environmental events. We 
did have 14 spills or releases that were reportable to national 
agencies based on applicable regulations.
Annually 
Recurring
Incur zero penalties more than $100,000
√
Our operations did not incur any penalties exceeding $100,000.
Annually 
Recurring
a. Includes FM O&G
b. 
There is no uniform definition of gross human rights violations under international law; however, the United Nations Office of the High Commissioner 
report: The Corporate Responsibility to Respect Human Rights – An Interpretive Guide, provides guidance on identifying such types of violations.
PERFORMANCE TARGETS
12 
A
s a natural resource company with a leading global portfolio 
of assets, we continue to advance significant expansion 
projects, and our exploration drilling programs continue to identify 
opportunities for future reserve and production growth. The ability 
to achieve our business goals depends on successfully recruiting 
and retaining talented employees. We offer not only competitive 
compensation and benefits, but also a culture of personal and 
professional development throughout career progression.
LOCAL HIRING AND SKILLS DEVELOPMENT
We make concerted efforts to hire locally, as this practice 
incorporates local cultures and knowledge into our business systems 
and helps fulfill our commitment to supporting local economic 
development both directly and indirectly. For example, at our largest 
operation, PTFI, located in the remote province of Papua, Indonesia, 
our policy is to prioritize the hiring of indigenous Papuans. At year-
end 2014, 99 percent of PTFI employees were Indonesian and of that 
total, 35 percent were indigenous Papuans (up from 32 percent three 
years prior). At our TFM operation, located in the DRC, 98 percent 
of our employees are Congolese citizens. 
Our regional technical training programs prepare community 
members for careers in mining, even though trainees have no 
obligation to join our Company. The Nemangkawi Mining Institute 
in Papua, Indonesia has placed over 2,300 apprentices into permanent 
employee and contractor positions to date at PTFI, over 90 percent 
of whom are indigenous Papuans. As PTFI prepares to transition 
from open-pit mining to underground mining, Nemangkawi is also 
transitioning from focusing on new employees to focusing on re-
training existing employees.
Our technical training program with the San Carlos Apache Tribe in 
Arizona, the first of its kind between Freeport-McMoRan and a U.S. 
Native American tribe, is intended to increase the employability
and skills of Apache students who are faced with high unemployment 
in their community. The program is designed to train and certify 
students in heavy equipment operations and industrial maintenance. 
Through the end of 2014, a total of 452 students have entered the 
program and 171 have graduated – 75 percent of whom have been 
hired or are in the process of being hired by the Company. We now 
employ approximately 290 Native Americans at our U.S. operations, 
an increase of over 40 percent from three years prior.
The Cerro Verde mill expansion, which will become the world’s 
largest concentrator, is expected to be completed in late 2015. 
In preparation, Cerro Verde has begun hiring personnel, with a 
preference to hire qualified persons from the Arequipa region. 
Cerro Verde also maintains a partnership with TECSUP, Peru’s 
premier technical training institute as part of its efforts to train 
community members in mining. In 2014, Cerro Verde partnered with 
TECSUP to develop a training program for participants interested 
in concentrator maintenance and operations. The program began in 
January 2014, and in December, the class of 173 students graduated,  
over 100 of whom have been hired by the Company.
WORKFORCE
Employees participate in an interactive two-day course titled Crucial Conversations 
in which participants learn skills to promote open dialogue between co-workers, 
including supervisors. Freeport-McMoRan’s Learning and Leadership Development 
program offers courses designed to improve the productivity and effectiveness of 
our workforce.
* 
The Increase in contractors over recent years is primarily attributable to 
construction of brownfield expansion projects in our copper business.
Workforce data includes FM O&G
EMPLOYEES
Approximately 35,000
	
38%	 
North America
	
34%	 Indonesia
	14%	 South America
	10%	 Africa
	 4%	 Europe/Other
CONTRACTORS*
Approximately 46,300
	
43%	 South America
	
39%	 Indonesia
	10%	 Africa
	 7%	 
North America
	 1%	 Europe/Other
13   
2014 WORKING TOWARD SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT
LABOR RELATIONS
As of December 31, 2014, our workforce consisted of approximately 
35,000 employees and 46,300 contractors. Approximately 48 percent 
of our employee population is covered by collective bargaining 
agreements, 28 percent of which is covered by agreements that 
will expire during 2015. We work cooperatively with 26 unions 
worldwide. Our policy is to ensure fair treatment and work conditions 
for all employees, including rights to freedom of association and 
collective bargaining. Employees have the right to exercise freedom 
of association at all of our operations.
During 2014, several events affected our unionized employees. We 
reached a new Collective Labor Agreement at our Stowmarket 
operation in the United Kingdom. Also during the year, members 
of the labor union in Chino (New Mexico) voted to decertify. In 
October 2014, a large percentage of Grasberg open-pit operators did 
not report to their scheduled shifts, notwithstanding approval of 
resumption of operations by Indonesian authorities upon completion 
of their investigation of a fatal haul truck accident that occurred near 
the Grasberg open-pit. 
DIVERSITY
We operate in regions of varying ethnic, religious and cultural 
backgrounds and are generally the largest employer in local 
communities. The resulting diverse backgrounds and perspectives 
within our workforce are an asset to our business. We prohibit 
discrimination and harassment, and our Principles of Business 
Conduct and Human Rights Policy require that all employees treat 
everyone in and around our operations with dignity and respect.
We seek ways to recruit and foster career development for women in 
our Company, as women traditionally have been underrepresented 
in the mining sector. We have several women in key management 
roles within our organization, including our Chief Financial Officer, 
and two members of our Board of Directors. Over 300 women 
hold management positions, or manager or higher positions in the 
Company. The percentage of women represented in our Company 
varies across geographies, from a high of 17 percent in North 
America to a low of four percent in both Africa and Indonesia. The 
percentage of women in our employee population remains at 10 
percent overall, which is below our 15 percent target. We participated 
in 47 recruiting events in 2014 in North America alone, including 
those intended to increase the diversity of our employee base, such as 
the Society of Women Engineers Conference.
WORKFORCE
TFM Human Rights Coordinator Ida Efenda facilitates a human rights training session.
Workforce members meet for a safety briefing prior to a shift on the Cerro Verde 
expansion project.
	
Africa	
Indonesia	
Europe/other	
South America	
North America	
Company-wide
	
98%	
77%	
66%	
64%	
0%	
48%
PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES UNDER COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS
By Operating Region
14 
S
afety is integral to all Freeport-McMoRan operations and is 
the responsibility of all employees and managed by a formal 
structure starting with our Safety and Health Policy. Our philosophy 
of safe production is demonstrated by the integration of safety 
practices in all aspects of our operational activities. Our Board 
of Directors requires comprehensive audits to assure the safety 
management system is effective, weaknesses are identified and 
resources are applied to achieve the Company’s policy objectives.
Our Health and Safety Management System consists of a framework 
for managing risks and compliance obligations. Our Management 
System is certified in accordance with the internationally recognized 
OHSAS 18001 standard. OHSAS certification audits are conducted 
at all metals and mining operations on a yearly basis. Twenty-three 
certification audits were conducted in 2014, including all active 
mining operations. These certification audits are supplemented with 
fatality prevention audits that focus specifically on high risk activities 
and are conducted by an independent organization using experts 
within the mining sector. 
We draw no distinction between contractors and our own employees 
with regard to health and safety performance and reporting. 
The Freeport-McMoRan Contractor Safety Manual defines the 
minimal expectations and requirements for contractors working 
at our operations. Site-specific training is conducted with each 
contractor regarding safety and health issues specific to their work 
location, including task-specific hazard identification and control 
implementation. Training on regulatory-specific topics also 
occurs regularly.
We measure progress toward achieving our objective against regularly 
established benchmarks, including measuring company-wide Total 
Recordable Incident Rates (TRIR) across our businesses. Our TRIR 
(including contractors) was 0.56 per 200,000 man-hours worked in 
2014, exceeding our target of 0.61. The company-wide TRIR in 2014 
is the lowest in the Company’s history. We worked 202.5 million 
hours in 2014 compared to 175 million hours in the prior year, and 
we recorded a total of 567 reportable injuries in 2014 compared to 
649 in 2013.  
FATALITY PREVENTION
We are continuing to refine our global Fatality Prevention Initiative 
and are learning more about best practices to enhance processes to 
reach our goal of zero fatalities. Ensuring workforce understanding 
of the critical controls necessary to eliminate or reduce the risk is 
our clear focus. We are working with industry experts and safety 
professionals to audit tasks and ensure that identified controls are 
being utilized and are effective. Using the hierarchy of controls, 
we implement controls at the highest level possible, working to 
reduce the reliance on behavioral controls and instituting more 
* Includes FM O&G 
TRIR = [(Fatalities + Lost Time Incidents + Restricted Duty Incidents + Medical Treatment) x 200,000] / Total Hours Worked
	
2010	
2011	
2012	
2013*	
2014*
Workplace Fatalities	
2	
5	
6	
35	
7
Total Recordable Incident Rate	
0.65	
0.61	
0.58	
0.74	
0.56
Occupational Illness Cases 	
6	
16	
25	
41	
46
SAFETY AND HEALTH SUMMARY DATA
Including Contractors
SAFETY AND HEALTH
15   
2014 WORKING TOWARD SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT
reliable controls including engineered solutions. A specific fatality 
prevention training program for leaders incorporates sharing best 
practices across our operations, including implementation of the 
controls set forth for identified Global Significant Risks (GSR). 
All operations began training leaders in 2014 and the training is 
continuing throughout 2015.  
In 2014, several reviews of our GSRs were conducted with subject 
matter experts from operations, maintenance and the safety function. 
The purpose was to set minimum policy requirements and identify 
potential gaps in existing guidelines or procedures. Reviews and 
subsequent improvement of GSR policies have been completed for 
circumstances regarding working at heights, open hole, 
lockout / tag out / try-out, shovel moves, blasting and industrial 
railroad activities. We also continue to learn from serious incidents 
that have occurred at other companies and have developed policies to 
set minimum standards to prevent a similar event at our Company. 
For example, we developed a shovel move policy following an event at 
another mining company’s operation when a shovel rolled over a light 
vehicle during a move, resulting in a fatality.
Through these reviews, our learning included the identification 
of critical controls being used effectively at certain operations and 
sharing that knowledge to improve the reliability of controls at all 
operations. A critical control upgrade communication mechanism 
has been developed to facilitate effective sharing of critical control 
improvements across our businesses (substituting administrative 
controls for engineering controls, for example). Examples include 
using robots in truck maintenance shops to remove and replace 
rims on haul truck tires. Implementing this technology removes the 
worker from a potentially harmful location should an accident related 
to tire pressure occur. We also are now building work platforms to set 
inside crushers when conducting work inside rather than relying on 
correct use of fall arrest systems.
A variance policy for GSRs will be issued to ensure the appropriate 
management reviews in those infrequent instances where it is 
not feasible to comply with a GSR control requirement or when 
2014 WORKPLACE FATALITIES
Including Contractors
Operation
Date
Event Description
PTFI 
Papua, Indonesia
January
A concrete mixer truck operator transporting a load of concrete from a surface batch plant to an 
underground construction project was killed when his truck overturned as it descended a steep section 
of the roadway.
Cerro Verde 
Expansion Project 
Arequipa, Peru
September
A subcontractor bus carrying contractor employees from the mine site to Arequipa ran off the road and 
rolled over. One contractor was killed.  
PTFI 
Papua, Indonesia
September
A fatal injury to a contractor occurred at the haulage level in the underground operation when a ground 
failure occurred during the use of a jumbo drill. The jumbo crew was working under supported ground at 
the time of the failure when the jumbo was buried, and the contractor miner was killed.
PTFI 
Papua, Indonesia
September
A haul truck ran over a light vehicle at an intersection in the Grasberg surface mine. There were nine 
individuals in the light vehicle and four employees were killed.
SAFETY AND HEALTH
Members of the Morenci Slope Design and Stability group stand in front of a ground 
probe slope stability radar unit that continuously scans pit slopes. The team utilizes 
high-tech equipment, including extensometers and time-domain reflectometer 
cables, to monitor any movement of material that might indicate the potential for 
an unsafe condition. 
16 
SAFETY AND HEALTH
compliance with a GSR control requirement may create a greater 
risk to workers. Variances are approved only where alternative 
controls can be demonstrated to provide equally effective 
protection, or where the risk has been reduced to the lowest level 
reasonably possible.
We are identifying proactive metrics or leading indicators of fatality 
prevention. The metrics will be used to drive process improvements 
by ensuring that the critical controls of high potential events will 
be properly managed. Such leading indicators to be tracked will 
include the number of critical control audits conducted for high risk 
tasks, percentage compliance with critical controls for high risk tasks 
audited, the number of critical control upgrades and the percentage 
reduction of high risks tasks performed.
In the wake of recent safety incidents at the 
PTFI operations, Freeport-McMoRan has 
undertaken a number of actions to improve 
workplace safety, including commissioning a 
third-party review of selected risk categories 
that could lead to events that could cause 
multiple fatalities. The review included an 
assessment of the degree to which those risk 
categories are currently being managed by 
assessing the quality of the controls in place, 
identifying instances where there were no 
controls in place for risk categories and 
indicating where current controls could 
be improved.
The risk categories reviewed included transportation risks (bus, 
tram, and Grasberg Block Cave shaft); geotechnical risks; fire risks 
(underground and in occupied surface buildings); and Deep Ore Zone 
underground mine haul truck risks. In all, 19 major accident hazards 
were examined and developed into 23 accident scenarios. The results 
of the review are being utilized to enhance ongoing critical control 
identification and implementation at PTFI.
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH 
Freeport-McMoRan operations maintain comprehensive occupational 
health programs to assess the risk of exposure to occupational health 
hazards and implement adequate controls for the workforce. Our 
Field Guide for Occupational Health and Industrial Hygiene defines 
occupational exposure limits, standards and practices that apply 
globally. Every workplace job task includes an evaluation of physical 
hazards, as well as the potential consequences related to occupational 
illness. During 2014, our medical protocols were reviewed, expanded 
and standardized to assist with recognition and management of risks 
relevant to conditions such as heat stress; to evaluate fitness for duty; 
and to track specific indicators for specific exposures such as silica and 
lead. We also have implemented a new software system that enables 
electronic management of data to expedite response to events and to 
monitor trends and patterns. 
There were 46 occupational illness cases reported at our operations in 
2014. These cases reflect the number of workforce members involved, 
not the number of exposure events which was significantly lower. 
One exposure event involving six employees occurred at a leach pad 
where exposure to gases including nitrogen dioxide occurred. In 
response, the use of personal monitors and controlled access have 
been implemented and additional measures have been introduced 
to test acids being used for leaching to determine their potential 
to contain residual or higher than optimal 
constituents that could result in undesirable 
exposure risks. These measures are now being 
implemented at all operations with similar 
leaching processes. We experienced six cases 
of heat stress primarily related to higher 
temperatures experienced at a number of 
operations and correct classification of the 
cases as heat stress as opposed to fatigue. We 
continue to conduct educational campaigns 
to promote proper hydration practices within 
the workforce. Other cases included hearing 
impairment, dermatitis and illness as a result 
of exposure to agents including acid mist. 
Any injury or illness includes a root cause analysis and management 
actions to prevent reoccurrence.
AVIATION SAFETY UPDATE
Following a global aviation review in 2012 and 2013, significant 
efforts have been undertaken to improve aviation safety associated 
with our operations, including a wide range of equipping, auditing 
and training initiatives.   
Both TFM and PTFI air operations have achieved the Basic Aviation 
Risk Standard (BARS) Gold status after three years of BARS 
audits administered by Flight Safety Foundation. This third-party 
assessment measures our safety performance against the actual threats 
posed to aviation operations, particularly those that occur within 
challenging and remote environments. The audit directly links these 
threats to our associated controls, recovery and mitigation measures.
The safety of the 
men and women in 
our over-80,000-
member workforce 
continues to be our 
highest priority and 
a critical focus of our 
management team.
17   
2014 WORKING TOWARD SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT
BUSINESS ETHICS
W
e are committed to the highest level of ethical and legal 
conduct. The Freeport-McMoRan Principles of Business 
Conduct are a commitment to integrity and define the expected 
behavior of all employees and our Board of Directors. We conduct 
comprehensive training on our Principles of Business Conduct, 
including annual certification of management-level employees 
(99 percent trained in 2014). This process consisted of computer-
based training, as well as a signed certification that the employee 
understands the Principles of Business Conduct and is not aware of 
any cases of non-compliance. Principles of Business Conduct training 
is also provided annually to non-management employees on a rotating 
basis by geographic location. Of the approximate 12,400 employees 
selected in 2014, 95 percent completed the training. Training is also 
mandatory for all new hires. 
ANTI-CORRUPTION
Corruption sometimes is widespread in local government systems and 
cultures near our operations, particularly in developing countries. We 
do not tolerate the offering or payment of bribes, kickbacks or other 
similar payments to any person or organization or government official 
to secure advantages for our business. Likewise, we do not accept any 
of these payments. Our Anti-Corruption Policy and Guidelines require 
compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 
(FCPA) and other relevant anti-corruption laws, including local laws. 
The Company developed a new online anti-corruption training 
module in 2012. That training was last issued in 2013 to employees 
who regularly interact with government officials, at which time more 
than 2,280 employees at our global operations participated. In light of 
hiring a new third-party training provider, we have delayed roll out of 
our online anti-corruption training. This training will roll out along 
with our other new courses in early 2016. Going forward, completion 
of the anti-corruption training will be required annually. The online 
training is not meant to replace our existing classroom training 
programs; rather, it has been developed to supplement existing systems 
and extend the reach of the Company’s overall compliance efforts. In 
the future, we will continue to broaden our training selection process 
to include additional employees within key departments and executive-
level groups who may interact with government officials, as well as 
support functions. This approach is expected to increase the number of 
employees selected for the training and provide a more consistent and 
automated selection process.
During 2014, we held in-person classroom training at Atlantic 
Copper, PTFI, Cerro Verde, TFM, FM O&G and for Exploration 
teams in Europe which consisted of key departments such as 
Government Relations, Operations and Logistics. Training also was 
conducted for support functions, including the Legal, Global Supply 
Chain, Sales and Marketing, Communications, Environmental 
Services, Human Resources and Accounting departments along 
with senior management responsible for approval procedures and 
internal controls. In addition, classes were held for 105 contractors at 
PTFI. Principles of Business Conduct, FCPA and Fair Competition 
training was provided to the Climax Molybdenum and Sales 
Management teams. 
In recognition of the potential legal liability that could result from 
actions of our business partners under the FCPA and other laws, 
the Company is implementing its online due diligence platform, the 
Freeport Compliance eXchange (FCeX). FCeX is a survey-based 
software platform designed to assess risk in the areas of anti-
corruption, international trade and human rights. FCeX launched as a 
pilot at PTFI, TFM and Cerro Verde during the first half of 2014, and 
was rolled out to the rest of our non-U.S. operations throughout the 
remainder of 2014. FCeX has significantly enhanced the Company’s 
ability to identify, assess and mitigate compliance risks.
INFORMATION AND REPORTING
Freeport-McMoRan maintains a Compliance Line to provide 
guidance and assistance to workforce members with any questions or 
concerns related to our Principles of Business Conduct. To encourage 
our workforce to raise any potential violations of business conduct, 
we also provide anonymous reporting through our compliance 
system with the exception of Spain in accordance with Spain’s Data 
Protection Act (Organic Law 15/1999 on the Protection of Personal 
Data) which prohibits anonymous reporting. During 2014, 238 
reports were made through the Freeport-McMoRan Compliance 
Line relating to various topics, including employee workplace 
conduct; environment, health, and safety; protecting Company 
assets; and conflicts of interest. All reports are investigated and, 
if substantiated, appropriate disciplinary action is taken including 
possible termination of employment.
Employees from PTFI’s Environmental, Corporate Communications, and Security & Risk 
Management departments receive annual training on corporate ethics and the FCPA 
from PTFI Compliance Officer, Ingrid Pakpahan. This training is an integral part of the 
Company’s global compliance program. 
18 
TRANSPARENCY OF GOVERNMENT PAYMENTS
In 2008, Freeport-McMoRan endorsed and committed to support 
the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), which 
is a commitment by governments to disclose revenues, and by oil, 
gas and mining companies to disclose natural resource payments to 
governments in order to advance transparency and accountability. 
A Company executive serves on the EITI International Board of 
Directors and other employees directly support in-country 
EITI processes.
DRC is an EITI compliant country and TFM engages in the 
process as a member of the country’s EITI multi-stakeholder group. 
Likewise, our Cerro Verde operation participates in implementation 
of EITI in Peru, which is also a compliant country. The U.S. was 
accepted as a candidate country by the EITI International Board 
of Directors in March 2014 and Company representatives are 
active members of the U.S. EITI multi-stakeholder group. Our 
PTFI operations continue to directly participate and support 
implementation of EITI in Indonesia, whose candidacy is 
temporarily suspended. 
The payments our Company makes to host governments via taxes, 
royalties and other obligations are a significant contribution to 
national, regional and local development. We believe that increased 
transparency of natural resource revenues and payments promotes 
better governance and accountability regarding the distribution of 
natural resource revenues. In addition to our country-level EITI 
commitments, our practice is to report annual material cash payments 
to governments, including sub-national payments, in all countries 
where we conduct business, as presented below.
For the year ended	
U.S.	
Chile	
Peru	
Indonesia	
DRC	
Other	
Total
December 31, 2014 ($ millions)                   	
	
	
	
	
	
Countriesb

Corporate Income Taxes, Net of Refunds	
$   384  	
$ 168  	
$ 282  	
$ 165  	
$   11  	
$  13  	
$ 1,023  
Withholding Taxes on Foreign Dividends 	
-	
134	
-	
1	
-	
-	
135
Employee Payroll Taxes 	
406	
24	
10	
86	
44	
25	
595
Dividends 	
-	
-	
-	
-	
-	
-	
-	

Royalties and Net Severance Taxes 	
369	
39	
23	
118	
32	
-	
581
Property Taxes 	
139	
1	
-	
9	
-	
2	
151
Other Taxes and Fees 	
434	
28	
150	
159	
95	
4	
870
Total 	
$1,732  	
$394  	
$465  	
$538  	
$182  	
$44  	
$3,355  
a. 
This schedule reflects a voluntary effort by Freeport-McMoRan to capture its cash payments to governments (net of refunds), including payments 
by FM O&G. Schedule includes sub-national payments.
b. 
Represents cash payments to governments by Freeport-McMoRan’s other business groups that are located outside of the countries where 
Freeport-McMoRan conducts its primary operations. 
CASH PAYMENTS TO GOVERNMENTSa
BUSINESS ETHICS
TFM is one of the largest copper and cobalt producers in the DRC and an investment in 
the future of the country. The project provides a vital source of revenue for regional and 
national development.
19   
2014 WORKING TOWARD SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT
HUMAN RIGHTS
W
e do not tolerate human rights violations, and our Human 
Rights Policy requires our Company and our contractors 
to conduct business in a manner consistent with the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights. We promote human rights awareness 
through outreach and training to our employees, contractors 
and communities, and we protect anyone who reports suspected 
violations. We have established site-specific human rights policies 
and systems consistent with the corporate policy, in-country laws and 
regulations, and the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human 
Rights (Voluntary Principles). Our human rights compliance officers 
oversee compliance and training, as well as a grievance mechanism 
for reporting, documenting and following up on all human rights 
allegations that are reported in our areas of operations.
HUMAN RIGHTS PROGRAM UPDATE 
We continued to advance integration of the UN ‘Protect, Respect 
and Remedy’ framework and the supporting Guiding Principles 
on Business and Human Rights (UN Guiding Principles) into 
our business during 2014. Most notably, we worked with a third 
party to complete a corporate-level human rights impact assessment 
(HRIA) in line with the UN Guiding Principles. In order to prevent 
and mitigate adverse human rights impacts, the results of this 
assessment are helping us to integrate human rights considerations 
across relevant business functions and processes. The HRIA 
covered 28 of Freeport-McMoRan’s mining and metals operations 
– encompassing those in Chile, DRC, Finland, Indonesia, the 
Netherlands, Peru, Spain, the UK and the U.S. 
As part of the HRIA, Freeport-McMoRan conducted three 
international-level stakeholder verification meetings with 
representatives from academia, investors, business partners, 
NGOs and governments. We received input on the assessment’s 
methodology and discussed findings. Key points arising from these 
meetings included the following: 
• 
Operation-level HRIA: The need to build on the corporate HRIA 
through more targeted, operation-level HRIA activity focused 
on ‘high risk/impact’ operations – to ensure less ‘visible’ risks and 
impacts are captured.
• 
Non-recorded impacts: Some human rights impacts may not be 
reported (e.g. through operations’ grievance mechanisms or 
official channels) for reasons ranging from lack of access to fear 
of retribution.
• 
Broader human rights dynamics: The incident-based approach 
used in the corporate HRIA may not capture broader background 
dynamics that should be factored into the overall picture of human 
rights impacts.
• 
Specific group perspectives/vulnerabilities: It could be useful to 
assess impacts via specific ‘lenses’ – e.g. from the specific perspective 
of women, minority groups, supply chain workers, marginalized 
groups or otherwise.
At the conclusion of the HRIA, the following main findings, which 
also aligned with stakeholder views, included:
• 
The Company’s most significant potential human rights impacts 
globally are related to environmental and community issues.
• 
The greatest actual and perceived impacts are linked to community 
and employee-related issues.
• 
For both potential and actual impacts, the Company’s operation 
in the DRC is its highest ranking site, followed by its operation 
in Indonesia. 
Employees
Working conditions
Safe and healthy                
working conditions
Contractors and workers 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in the supply chain
Discrimination
Children’s rights, incl.
access to education
Community
Standards of living /              
quality of life
Community health 
and safety 
Economic activity /         
livelihoods
Minorities, including 
indigenous peoples
Displacement /             
resettlement
Cultural heritage
Third Parties
Conduct of private              
security forces
Conduct of government     
security forces
Contribution to conflict
Presence of artisanal /          
small-scale miners
Environment
Pollution
Water security
Waste and hazardous 
materials management
CORPORATE-LEVEL HUMAN RIGHTS IMPACT ASSESSMENT
IMPACT
Extreme
High
Medium
This dashboard illustrates the outcomes of the corporate-level HRIA and 
the human rights issues (actual and perceived) identified as areas of 
extreme to medium impact when aggregated across our global mining 
and metals operations.
20 
As part of the corporate-level HRIA, we included an exercise to 
identify how the Company promotes and advances human rights. 
While understanding that positive human rights impacts cannot 
offset a negative impact, this assessment allowed us to capture a more 
holistic view of our overall human rights performance. It also allowed 
us to identify areas where we have opportunities to promote human 
rights. The assessment showed that human rights issues within 
communities are where we have our greatest positive impacts, which 
are largely supported through our social investment and community 
partnership programs. 
As a next step, Freeport-McMoRan has commenced a site-level 
HRIA at its TFM operation in the DRC. This site-level process 
includes local stakeholder engagement by a third party (same 
consultancy that facilitated the corporate-level HRIA) and provides 
a mechanism for inquiring about and identifying any impacts not 
captured in the grievance mechanism, media reports, and stakeholder 
information used in the corporate-level assessment. Our site-level 
process, which is expected to be completed in the second half of 
2015, is intended to assist TFM in prioritizing human rights issues 
where the operation can have the greatest impact. 
Any confirmed impacts at the site-level which are not already 
addressed will generate action plans that will be incorporated into 
the site’s existing sustainable development management systems. 
Based on lessons learned from this site-level process, the findings will 
further shape the Company’s human rights strategy and approach as 
we consider possible gaps in our high-level corporate assessment and 
the possible implementation of assessments at other operations.
The HRIA process, including the related stakeholder engagement, 
helped the Company define updates to its Human Rights Policy. 
Approved by the Freeport-McMoRan Board of Directors in February 
2015, the updated Freeport-McMoRan Human Rights Policy 
requires alignment of our human rights due diligence practices with 
the UN Guiding Principles. The revised policy also states that we 
will utilize human rights impact and risk assessments to prevent and 
mitigate human rights impacts at our operations. The policy upholds 
our previous human rights commitments, such as implementation 
of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, but 
also highlights our commitment to expanded human rights issues 
and broadening our lens to identify human rights impacts, such as 
prohibiting human trafficking in our supply chain and respecting the 
rights of indigenous peoples and vulnerable groups. 
SECURITY
The Voluntary Principles on 
Security and Human Rights serve 
as guidelines for our security and 
human rights programs, interactions with host government police and 
military personnel, and with private security contractors. 
PT Freeport Indonesia
Security risks near our PTFI operations in Papua, Indonesia stem 
from the presence of in-migration, separatist activists in the region, 
presence of illegal gold panners in the project area, and social, 
political and ethnic tensions within the local community and in other 
areas of the province.
PTFI employs approximately 730 unarmed personnel and 260 
unarmed private security and transportation and logistics contractors 
that perform functions such as protecting facilities, monitoring 
shipments of supplies and products, assisting in traffic control and 
aiding in emergency response operations. The Grasberg minerals 
district has been designated by the Government of Indonesia as one 
of Indonesia’s vital national assets. This designation results in the 
police, and to a lesser extent, the military, playing a significant role in 
protecting the area of our operations. The Government of Indonesia 
is responsible for employing police and military personnel and 
directing their operations. PTFI has also established a Memorandum 
of Understanding (MoU) with the Provincial Commander of the 
National Police, which was last revised and signed in 2013. The MoU 
covers a 3-year term and details the working relationship between 
PTFI and the police, including areas of support, coordination and 
commitment to PTFI policies and procedures, including business 
ethics and human rights. The Voluntary Principles are included in 
the MoU. PTFI’s share of support costs for the government-provided 
security was $27 million for 2014 and $25 million and $22 million 
in 2013 and 2012, respectively. This supplemental support consists of 
infrastructure and other costs, such as food, housing, fuel, travel, vehicle 
repairs, allowances to cover incidental and administrative costs, and 
community assistance programs conducted by the military and police.
In 2009, a series of shooting incidents targeting company personnel, 
contractors and host government security personnel occurred within 
the PTFI project area, primarily along our remote access road and east 
levee. These shooting incidents have continued on a sporadic basis with 
the last incident occurring on January 1, 2015 resulting in the death 
of one PTFI security employee and two Mobile Brigade police. From 
the beginning of 2009 through January 2015, there were a disturbing 
20 fatalities and 59 injuries to employees, contractor employees, host 
government security personnel, and civilians from shooting incidents 
within our project area. To date, no one person or group has claimed 
responsibility for the shootings and investigations by the Indonesian 
authorities remain ongoing.
HUMAN RIGHTS
21   
2014 WORKING TOWARD SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT
HUMAN RIGHTS
Tenke Fungurume Mining
TFM currently faces a number of security and social risks, such as 
risks posed by illegal artisanal miners present on the concession as 
well as a rapid population influx of migrants looking for economic 
opportunities. TFM employs approximately 340 unarmed security 
employees and 725 unarmed private security contractors. In addition 
to these security personnel, the national government has assigned 
approximately 110 Mines Police to the TFM concession area. The 
Mines Police are a division of the Congolese National Police and are 
responsible for maintaining security in mining concessions throughout 
the DRC. Since 2008, TFM has been a party to a Memorandum 
of Understanding (MoU) with the Mines Police assigned by the 
state to maintain public security in the TFM concession area. The 
MoU details the working relationship between TFM and the Mines 
Police, including areas of support, coordination and commitment to 
TFM policies and procedures, including business ethics and human 
rights. The Voluntary Principles are incorporated by reference and 
included as an attachment to the MoU. TFM provides food, housing, 
medical services, supervised transportation, non-lethal equipment and 
monetary allowances as well as direct payments to the government 
for the provision of the security assigned to the concession area. The 
total cost to TFM for this support, including in-kind support, totaled 
approximately $2 million in 2014 and less than $1 million in 2013 
and 2012.
Provision of support to host country security personnel in the 
DRC and Indonesia is consistent with our obligations under our 
agreements with the respective governments, our philosophy of 
responsible corporate citizenship and the Voluntary Principles. 
We facilitate host government security training on the Voluntary 
Principles and periodically review our support practices to ensure 
they are appropriate, lawful and properly controlled.
REPORTING AND ENGAGEMENT MECHANISMS
In 2014, 40 human rights-related allegations were reported to the 
PTFI Human Rights Compliance Officer compared to 34 in the 
prior year. Nineteen of these allegations were human resource cases, 
three were harassment cases, three were intimidation cases, two were 
discrimination and one was a community issue. There were also 12 
cases related to domestic issues. All cases reported were documented, 
reviewed and closed, or are in the process of being followed up by the 
PTFI Human Rights Compliance Office.
In 2014, 34 human rights allegations were reported to and recorded 
by the TFM Human Rights Compliance Officer. This was an 
increase from 17 cases recorded in 2013 and may reflect further 
maturity and trust of the reporting system. Of the cases reported, 
11 were cases of harassment, 10 were human resource cases, seven 
were physical assault, two were health and environmental cases, one 
was discrimination, one was property damage, one was a community 
issue, and one was a case of contract truckers using children to run 
errands and wash trucks at a truck stop. All cases were documented, 
reviewed and closed, or are in the process of being followed up by 
the TFM Human Rights Compliance Officer or investigated by 
government authorities.
Seven of the allegations at TFM were made against security employees 
or host government security personnel. One case involved a security 
employee who alleged he was physically assaulted by colleagues for 
not supporting a criminal activity (theft of ore). The other six cases 
involved community members who alleged that they were physically 
assaulted, mistreated or had property seized by members of the Mines 
Police. Six of these cases were closed (five of them reported to the local 
Police as a criminal matter for further investigation) and one of them 
was concluded as unsubstantiated. 
TFM also experienced a number of violent security incidents 
related to illegal artisanal mining occurring in its concession during 
2014. There were five incidents recorded in 2014 which together 
resulted in the deaths of one member of the National Police and 
three illegal miners, and non-life-threatening injuries to two illegal 
miners. Notably, four of these incidents took place in areas near 
our operations, while one took place in the town of Tenke. In each 
of these cases, TFM called for an official investigation; however, 
in most cases, no response was received or the case status has been 
reported as still in process. TFM also engages with local Congolese 
human rights NGOs to keep them informed and help call for 
transparency. In one case, TFM engaged with MONUSCO, 
whose Human Rights Team had arrived at site to prepare for an 
upcoming training, and investigated a fatal event involving an 
illegal artisanal miner.
For more information on our Human Rights programs, please see our 
Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights 2014 Report to 
the Plenary on our website.
Superintendent of Human Rights Training at PTFI Luther Kogoya leads employees 
through a training session. The training emphasizes that all employees and contractors 
have a responsibility to report any human rights concerns or potential violations.
22 
W
e recognize that our operations have economic, social and 
environmental impacts on local communities throughout a 
project life cycle. Some of these impacts include land use change and 
population influx, while others include economic opportunities and 
development in the areas of infrastructure, health and education. We 
engage openly and transparently with local stakeholders to facilitate 
our ability to operate and grow our business. Our Community Policy 
calls for collaboration with communities to minimize and mitigate 
adverse impacts and cultivate opportunities to maximize benefits.
Engagement and consultation ensure communities have input into 
our development and operating projects and promotes a better 
understanding of our business operations. Dialogue with local 
stakeholders occurs formally through open houses and regulatory 
processes, but also through interactions with our community 
development representatives in the field, community partnership 
panels and community investment foundations. 
Our operations use a community grievance management system 
for recording, processing and responding to community concerns. 
Approximately 580 community grievances were recorded at worldwide 
operations during 2014, of which over two-thirds were related to 
resettlement at TFM. An Independent Mediation Committee 
(IMC) is maintained at TFM independently and impartially resolve 
grievances. Mediation occurs only if the complainant is not satisfied 
with TFM’s resolution to the initial grievance recorded through 
the grievance system and the complainant requests the grievance be 
presented to the IMC. In 2014, the IMC received 76 cases, of which 
46 were resolved (related to community resettlement, property damage 
and employment) and the remaining 30 are in process.
COMMUNITY INVESTMENT
Freeport-McMoRan’s community investment strategy addresses 
high-priority needs and facilitates local capacity building to sustain 
communities post-closure. Our social investment criteria is a set of 
guidelines designed to ensure that resources are used effectively by 
decreasing community dependencies on our operations and ensuring 
that we enter into partnerships that support sustainability.
In addition to direct community investment from operations 
and the corporate Freeport-McMoRan Foundation, we have 
established community trust funds or social funds in Chile, the 
DRC, Indonesia and the U.S., which are managed by community 
members who determine the allocation of funds to programs that 
focus on education, health and economic development. Contributions 
to the PTFI Partnership Fund were over $31 million in 2014 
and $634 million since its inception in 1996. Our six community 
investment funds in North America contributed almost $3 million to 
community-directed projects during the year.
During 2014, we continued our support of quality improvement in 
science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) education 
through teacher development and retention initiatives, programs 
to spark student interest, and efforts that helped to strengthen the 
STEM education systems, all with the goal of improving student 
achievement and preparing them for college and careers. We also 
invested significantly in higher education programs that trained 
students in the trades as well as 4-year degree programs related to 
our business needs. Our focus on STEM is aligned with the long-
term technical requirements of our business, as well as environmental 
education opportunities available at most of our operations. We also 
have advanced our investments in women’s economic empowerment 
programs, such as “Dreambuilder-Women’s Business Creator,” an 
online entrepreneurship skills training program that has reached 
more than 3,600 women in Latin America with more than half 
from our communities in Chile and Peru. Impact evaluation of the 
first group of graduates 8-10 months after graduation indicated that 
68 percent increased sales, 42 percent were able to expand and hire 
new employees, and 71 percent now paid themselves a salary versus 
only 13 percent who did so before participating in the program. The 
COMMUNITIES
As part of Cerro Verde’s work to improve water infrastructure within the Arequipa 
region, in 2014, it completed the reconstruction of floodgates on the Rio Chili. The new 
floodgates replaced antiquated infrastructure and help maintain the integrity of regional 
agricultural irrigation systems during severe precipitation events.
2014 COMMUNITY INVESTMENT
$198 million
	36%
	21%
	 19%
	 16%
	 8%
12%
Education and 
Training
Economic Development 
and Infrastructure
Community Trust 
Funds
Safety, Health and 
Environment
Administration
Other*
*Includes arts, culture, heritage, resettlement and employee programs such 
as Matching Gifts and United Way.
23   
2014 WORKING TOWARD SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT
COMMUNITIES
English version of the program was developed throughout 2014 and 
launched in early 2015 with a goal of reaching at least 2,500 women 
in the U.S. Other empowerment initiatives include an agricultural 
training program in the DRC in partnership with Women for 
Women International, as well as PTFI’s assistance of Kamoro women 
through a cooperative that supports income-generating activities. 
INDIGENOUS PEOPLES
Our community engagement and local investment objectives are 
significantly focused on indigenous peoples in Papua, Indonesia; 
Native Americans in the United States; and the communities of Alto 
Loa in Chile (Chile’s First People). Through community engagement, 
cultural promotion and preservation projects, and training and 
development programs, we seek to address the needs, cultures and 
customs of indigenous peoples near our operations. Engaging with 
groups focused on indigenous peoples’ rights at the local, national 
and international levels is also important for two-way sharing of 
information about approaches to indigenous peoples topics in 
varying geographies. 
In 2014, PTFI recorded 24 formal grievances from members of 
the indigenous Papuan community, including claims over land use, 
alleged new land rights being challenged and compensation requested 
for past land use agreements. PTFI receives and handles community 
grievances through its Community Grievance Management System 
and complies with Indonesian laws regarding land and customary 
rights. In response to land rights grievances, PTFI coordinates with 
local authorities to investigate the claim and works with all parties 
to try to reach an agreement within the existing legal framework. In 
2014, PTFI supported the Amungme tribal council (LEMASA) in 
conducting a land rights mapping study in three highland villages 
in cooperation with Cenderawasih University Faculty of Law and 
Anthropology Department based in Jayapura, Papua. An initial stage 
of this study has been completed and the results are intended to assist 
the Amungme, the government, and PTFI in mediating land right 
claims.
In November 2014, approximately 300 residents from the Kamoro 
village of Nawaripi blocked PTFI workers from carrying out 
extension work on the West Levee. They claimed that PTFI’s 
operations were impacting river access ways and requested monetary 
compensation, business and employment opportunities, as well 
as houses and public facilities to be constructed for them. PTFI 
Community Liaison Officers and the PTFI Tailings and River 
Management Project Department met with the Nawaripi residents 
to discuss their grievances and assess the impacts. After reviewing 
the situation together, PTFI agreed to provide in-kind assistance, 
including construction of a jetty, support for economic development 
programs, and organization of a traditional ceremony in respect of 
the cultural heritage of the affected community. PTFI is continuing 
discussions with the community for an amicable long-term solution.
In Chile, our El Abra operation engages regularly with 10 indigenous 
communities, and the operation has established an Agreement of 
Cooperation with the Community of Conchi Viejo whose town is 
located between the plant and the mine. During 2014, we considered 
additional, formalized engagement, assessment and management 
systems to effectively address social impacts and community 
development topics within the corridor surrounding our operation 
near Calama, Chile, where we have a future expansion opportunity. 
Coupled with the Freeport-McMoRan Chile Foundation for social 
investment, we anticipate significantly increased strategic stakeholder 
engagement and community development activities in Chile in 2015.
In the U.S., we continued engagement with Native American tribes in 
2014. Education has been identified as a priority issue for our partner 
tribes, and our Native American Scholarship program awarded 36 
college scholarships to members of the Hualapai, San Carlos Apache, 
In response to grievances from Kamoro communities related to sedimentation in 
the Ajkwa estuary, PTFI has provided a 50 passenger boat to provide regular water 
transportation services for coastal villages to healthcare, education and economic 
trade in the Timika area.
In 2014, El Abra partnered with a renewable energy developer to install 1,500 
photovoltaic panels (left) and a wind turbine in the indigenous community of Ollagüe, 
Chile. Prior to the project the community relied solely on electricity from diesel 
generators. A traditional Quechua “Payment to the Earth” ceremony (right) is performed 
to give thanks for the project.
24 
Tohono O’odham and White Mountain Apache tribes during the 
year. We also contributed over $290,000 through our designated 
Native American Partnerships Fund to initiatives including the 
Tohono O’odham Farmer-Gardener Economic Development project, 
which sought to expand economic activity by capitalizing on local 
natural resources, cultural traditions and social enterprises, and the 
United National Indian Tribal Youth (UNITY) National Conference, 
which provides training, technical assistance and enrichment 
activities to over 1,250 Native youth on an annual basis. 
TFM COMMUNITY RESETTLEMENT
Due to the expansion at TFM, accessing new land results in impacts 
to farmland and households, and in many cases economic and/or 
physical displacement cannot be avoided. TFM maintains a Land 
Access, Compensation, and Resettlement Policy Framework (available 
on our website) that sets out the principles, procedures, entitlements, 
eligibility criteria and organizational arrangements governing TFM’s 
compensation for involuntary resettlement impacts. The framework, 
along with TFM’s other commitments to displaced households and 
communities, was developed in alignment with DRC law and the 
International Finance Corporation (IFC) Performance Standards.
TFM follows a transparent, multi-step participatory process where 
all project-affected households are fully engaged and fairly 
compensated to ensure that their living standards are improved 
or at least restored to pre-project conditions. For each phase of 
resettlement, TFM conducts a comprehensive socio-economic 
baseline and census, and then prepares a Resettlement Action Plan 
(RAP). Each community-specific RAP identifies all economically 
and physically impacted households, whose displacement is 
unavoidable, within a clearly identified footprint. These impacts are 
then mitigated via cash compensation and/or replacement of assets, 
and restoration of livelihoods.
Planning for the resettlement process linked to the Oxide Project 
expansion advanced in 2014, with a particular focus on the 
compensation and physical resettlement of the Bloc Mitumba 
community located near the Fungurume Hills mining area 
and Fungurume town. The Mitumba-Fungurume Hills RAP 
impacts approximately 1,240 households that will be physically or 
economically displaced, of which 324 are entitled to resettlement 
housing. Physical resettlement was initiated in 2014 with the first 
40 households resettled in the New Mitumba resettlement site. An 
additional 20 households who opted for cash compensation were 
resettled in privately acquired residences in Fungurume, Lubumbashi 
and Likasi. The physical resettlement process is scheduled for 
completion by the end of 2015.
A cash compensation option was created to respond to the more 
urban and transitory character of the Bloc Mitumba community, 
and as an alternative for households who already own a home 
or prefer to build or buy a home. The TFM Resettlement Unit 
directly supports and monitors households throughout the process 
to ensure that replacement houses are constructed or acquired and 
improved to an acceptable standard and with security of tenure. 
This cash option increases the range of choices available to eligible 
households and provides an opportunity to use cash compensation to 
leverage livelihood opportunities and improve their well-being more 
sustainably than they may have through the receipt of a residence 
they may or may not intend to use. 
Close monitoring of resettled households will continue during and 
after resettlement to monitor program effectiveness and the well-
being of resettled households. The TFM resettlement program 
undergoes an annual external review as part of the program’s 
monitoring and evaluation. 
PUBLIC HEALTH
We operate in some parts of the world that lack clean water and 
sanitation, and have populations with low levels of health education, 
awareness and access to adequate health services. Malaria, HIV/
AIDS and tuberculosis (TB) are serious infectious diseases impacting 
communities near our operations in Indonesia and the DRC, 
including members of our workforce. In coordination with local 
governments and NGOs, we dedicate significant resources to helping 
communities and governments reduce public health risks.
Tenke Fungurume Mining
Before TFM began operations, malaria was the largest cause of 
morbidity in the area and placed a significant social and economic 
burden on the wider community. TFM implements an integrated 
malaria control program to protect the workforce, as well as the 
community residing within the concession – the first of its kind in the 
DRC. An indoor residual spraying program, aimed at targeting all 
accessible households in the concession, consists of two spray rounds 
COMMUNITIES
As part of its Resettlement Action Plan, TFM engages with consultation committees 
comprised of village chiefs, elders and traditionally underrepresented community 
members including women and youth (right, New Mitumba Consultation Committee). 
Phase one of the New Mitumba resettlement (left), which included construction of new 
homes for 40 households and a school, was completed in 2014.
25   
2014 WORKING TOWARD SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT
COMMUNITIES
per year with more than 205,800 rooms/structures sprayed during 
the 2013-14 rainy season. In 2014, 573 malaria cases were diagnosed 
and treated among the workforce, representing an overall reduction in 
total workforce malaria incidence of 80 percent since the start of the 
program in 2008.
Improving access to clean water is critical to improving local 
health and living standards. Since 2007, 119 water wells have been 
constructed in and around TFM’s concession, including six in 2014. 
During the 2013-14 rainy season, a cholera outbreak occurred in the 
TFM concession resulting in 203 cases of cholera and 10 deaths. 
Despite efforts to increase access to potable water, and not having 
had a cholera outbreak since 2009, high population influx into the 
area resulted in people collecting water from an unsanitary river. In 
response to the outbreak, TFM supported the local government to 
establish an isolated cholera treatment location, provided cholera 
diagnostic and treatment kits and supported the transport of medical 
supplies provided by the Provincial Ministry of Health to the 
impacted area. TFM also donated chlorine to the government to 
support chlorination of shallow and unprotected wells in the area. 
No cholera cases have been reported in the TFM concession for the 
2014-15 rainy season, and programs are underway for increasing 
access to potable water in sprawling urban areas that pose high risk.
As part of the USAID Emerging Pandemics Threats Program, 
tools were developed to address infectious disease risk management 
through collaborative dialogue and formulation of health strategies 
to mitigate these threats in collaboration governments and extractive 
industries. In 2014, TFM participated in field testing these tools, 
including hosting a site visit where health experts met with site 
management to review and discuss existing practices, practicality 
and feasibility of using the tools and implementing the suggested 
mitigation measures. The program was timely in supporting best 
practice in TFM’s preparedness planning for infectious disease 
outbreaks, such as Ebola. 
PT Freeport Indonesia
The PTFI Community Health Department, supported by the 
company’s medical services provider International SOS, implements 
programs for education, prevention, counseling, diagnosis and 
treatment of diseases within and around the project area. In addition 
to the approximate $7.8 million invested in community public 
health programs by PTFI in 2014, LPMAK contributed almost 
$15.4 million to community health care programs. This included the 
operation of community hospitals in Timika, in the lowlands, and 
Banti, in the highlands, as well as implementation of a comprehensive 
public health program addressing HIV/AIDS, TB, malaria, mother 
and child health, and clean water.
Papua Province has seen a rapid increase in the HIV prevalence 
rate in the past four years from 157 per 100,000 people in 2011 
to 359 per 100,000 people in 2014, nearly 16 times more than the 
Indonesia national prevalence rate (23 per 100,000 people in 2014). 
The HIV/AIDS epidemic in Papua is predominately characterized by 
heterosexual transmission, especially impacting the indigenous Papuan 
population. PTFI implements a number of HIV/AIDS prevention, 
outreach, and treatment programs for employees and community 
members. In 2014, PTFI conducted HIV/AIDS education and 
outreach activities reaching over 14,000 community members and 
9,100 employees, distributed condoms and conducted over 700 one-on-
one counseling sessions with commercial sex workers.
PTFI also increased HIV/AIDS Voluntary Counseling and Testing 
(VCT) services for the workforce by offering VCT for anyone 
receiving a checkup unless they opt out. In 2014, approximately 
21,000 employees and contractors participated in VCT, an impressive 
increase from 3,400 employees in 2011, and 69 new cases were 
detected. Due to PTFI’s efforts to increase VCT uptake, PTFI is 
diagnosing HIV cases at an early stage and before complications 
arise. Antiretroviral therapy is provided for HIV positive cases 
among PTFI’s workforce and community members by the Indonesian 
government. This early diagnosis not only gives individuals with HIV 
an opportunity to receive treatment and lead a healthy life, but also 
helps to prevent transmission of HIV to others. 
Patients receive care at the interim referral hospital, built as a joint partnership 
between TFM and the Fungurume Health Zone. The facility serves a population of 
approximately 130,000. 
26 
ARTISANAL MINING
Artisanal and small-scale miners have limited equipment and 
expertise at operating in hazardous conditions and can create social 
and environmental impacts, as well as placing their own health and 
safety at risk. These risks pose a challenge for the mining industry 
globally, and companies are identifying means to manage the 
associated security risks and create economic alternatives for illegal 
miners, or in some cases, where health, safety and environmental 
conditions can be regulated, develop means for formalizing artisanal 
mining. We recognize that no single solution will entirely address 
the issue as long as there is unemployment, poverty and buyers for 
illegal products. However, we believe that a multi-pronged approach 
comprised of security risk management, stakeholder engagement and 
socio-economic development for alternative livelihoods is essential. 
PT Freeport Indonesia
PTFI uses controlled riverine tailings management to transport 
tailings to a designated area in the lowlands and coastal zone, 
called the Modified Deposition Area (ModADA). Thousands of 
illegal artisanal miners pan for gold in the Otomona River system 
(downstream of the mill) within the project area. The artisanal 
miners include local community members, but the majority are from 
outside the region.
One of the greatest risks from illegal gold panning is the potential 
use of mercury. PTFI monitors regularly for mercury use via routine 
environmental monitoring programs, and mercury has not been 
detected above natural background levels in the river ecosystem. 
PTFI also maintains a continuous air mercury monitoring system in 
the town of Timika. Since 2010, mercury continues to be detected at 
elevated levels in parts of the town where gold shops are present. Due 
to these monitoring systems and educational outreach, PTFI believes 
the risk of mercury use in the river system has been significantly 
reduced. Community Liaison Officers (CLOs) are routinely in the 
field to socialize the health and safety risks of artisanal gold panning.
Another risk associated with artisanal mining is an increase in the 
number of conflicts between gold panners and others who support 
this complex network of activities. PTFI began working with a third 
party in 2014 to help support stakeholder engagement efforts with 
the illegal gold panners. This organization also has conducted an 
update to the 2012 baseline survey on panning in both the highland 
and lowland areas. Given the sensitivity of illegal artisanal mining 
under Indonesian law and the associated risks, PTFI recognizes the 
importance of a neutral third party in helping to establish better 
information gathering and two-way communication.
PTFI is working with the local government and relevant institutions 
to find alternative livelihoods. For local community members, 
village-based economic development programs, including coffee and 
cocoa cooperatives, are current areas of work, and the introduction 
of vegetables and other fast-growing crops through intercropping 
methods to boost income is another near-term opportunity.
Tenke Fungurume Mining
Artisanal mining is widespread throughout the DRC and occurs 
illegally on the TFM concession, which is designated for industrial 
mining. Near-surface high grade ore is present throughout the 
concession and artisanal miners dig underground adits and tunnels to 
access ore deposits using rudimentary tools and with no protective gear. 
Working conditions in artisanal mining areas are treacherous, and the 
risk of landslides, collapse and the burial of miners are particularly 
high during the rainy season. In 2014, an incident of one illegal miner 
killed in a landslide activity within the TFM mining concession was 
reported. TFM suspects that there could be more cases of illegal miner 
fatalities, but they are not reported to TFM or the local authorities due 
to the illegal nature of the activity and fear of arrest or closure of access 
to open deposits and tunnels.
New arrivals, mostly young men driven out of other artisanal mining 
areas, are drawn to the TFM mining concession (and other mines 
in the area) by the possibility of economic opportunity. High levels 
of influx and associated illegal mining create tensions and social 
conflicts in the community, such as increased crime. In 2014, TFM 
launched a partnership with Search for Common Ground (SFCG) 
to engage community stakeholders around issues including illegal 
mining, security and human rights, and social cohesion using various 
communications strategies. As a first stage of the project, SFCG 
conducted a baseline survey to identify the main socio-economic 
tensions issues in the concession, including local views on illegal 
mining. In partnership with SFCG, TFM hopes to create a forum 
for constructive dialogue with community members on the conflict 
issues in the area. Similar to the situation in Indonesia, we believe 
that third-party support is important for helping us engage around 
sensitive conflict issues.
As TFM expands operations to additional deposits within its 
concession, the likelihood of encountering illegal mining activity 
will increase. TFM continues to engage with the DRC authorities 
to operate control measures at the entry and exit points of the 
concession to interdict shipments of illegal ore, and to implement 
mobile security monitoring. TFM CLOs conduct awareness 
campaigns to educate the community on the risks associated with 
illegal artisanal mining activity. TFM’s long-term strategy continues 
to be support for economic development and job creation in the 
region to provide communities with alternative opportunities for 
income generation. TFM has prioritized agriculture development as 
an area of support and is also developing an Integrated Development 
Zone in the concession with the goal of attracting other businesses to 
the area to help stimulate job growth.
COMMUNITIES
27   
2014 WORKING TOWARD SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT
T
he Freeport-McMoRan Environmental Policy is based on our 
objective to be compliant with laws and regulations and to 
minimize environmental impacts using risk management strategies 
based on valid data and sound science. It requires that we review and 
take account of the environmental effects of each activity, whether 
exploration, mining or processing; and that we plan and conduct 
the design, development, operation and closure of each facility in a 
manner that optimizes the economic use of resources while reducing 
adverse environmental effects.
All of our mining and mineral processing operations maintain 
Environmental Management Systems (EMS) certified to ISO 14001, 
which are independently audited on an annual basis. During 2014, 
we completed internal environmental audits at 14 operations, and our 
facilities are routinely inspected by regulatory agencies. Since 1996, an 
independent environmental audit has been conducted at PTFI every 
three years, and an executive summary and responses to the 2014 
audit recommendations are posted on our website. All operations have 
corrective action programs associated with the overarching EMS.
When operations receive an environmental violation from a 
regulatory agency such as shown in the table below, the citations 
typically relate to brief and minor exceedances of permit conditions 
or other recordkeeping violations which have no or minimal 
environmental impact. Notices of violation may also follow spills 
or releases related to tailings dust or impacted water. The increase 
in NOVs from 2012 to 2014 are partly attributable to notices 
received at Cerro Verde relating to a range of administrative-related 
findings that are not related to potential releases or threats to the 
environment. Where our operations have been assessed for penalties, 
they typically are individually below $100,000.
ENERGY MANAGEMENT
Our copper mining operations require significant energy inputs, 
principally diesel, purchased power, coal and natural gas, most of 
which is obtained from third parties under long-term contracts. For 
the year 2014, energy represented approximately 20 percent of our 
consolidated copper production costs. 
In 2014, our worldwide total greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, 
measured as carbon dioxide equivalent emissions, were relatively 
unchanged from 2013 at approximately 9.5 million metric tons 
divided between direct (55 percent) and indirect (45 percent) 
emissions. Reductions in emissions associated with the sale of 
Candelaria and Ojos de Salado were offset by significant production 
expansion projects at Morenci and Cerro Verde. Year-to-year our 
direct emissions are primarily from fuel combustion in haul trucks, 
followed by the combustion of fuels to provide energy for roasting, 
smelting and other processes. The majority of our mining activity 
occurs in open pits. As an open pit matures, haul road length 
increases and haul trucks are required to move ore additional 
distances to the processing facility. While the amount of waste 
* Penalties are typically paid in periods subsequent to the year of the environmental event and/or enforcement action.
	
2010	
2011	
2012	
2013	
2014
Reportable spills or releases of hazardous or toxic chemicals	
10	
11	
12	
16	
14
Notices of Violations related to permit exceedances, spills,  
releases or other compliance matters	
6	
6	
4	
10	
11
Environmental Penalties*	
$83,420	
$75,000	
$47,369	
$80,362	
$123,745
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE INDICATORS
ENVIRONMENT
The Morenci mill expansion in Arizona commenced operations in May 2014. As part 
of the project, high efficiency ball mills and a hydraulic roll crusher were installed, 
allowing for the processing of higher volumes of ore with up to 25 percent more energy 
efficiency than other crushing circuits in the industry.
28 
material moved fluctuates year to year, the haul distances are also 
increasing. When market conditions necessitate the mining and 
processing of lower grade ore, haul trucks must move more material 
per pound of processed metal. 
Indirect emissions are primarily those emitted by our electricity 
providers. In 2014, approximately 64 percent of our purchased power 
was from low carbon sources, including natural gas or renewable 
energy. Crushing, milling, pumping and electrowinning are the 
most significant power-consuming processes at our facilities. We 
have achieved significant improvements in energy efficiency with 
our new processing facilities, including new mills at Morenci and 
Cerro Verde. Nevertheless, the efficiency gains do not warrant 
comprehensive replacement of currently operating equipment at other 
milling facilities because that option cannot be economically justified.
We have been investing more than $10 million annually into energy-
related research and development through our technology center, 
technical services and operational improvement groups. We also 
participate in utility demand side efficiency programs and support 
renewable energy standards when feasible, such as providing mining-
related property for solar power generation. Efficiency achievements 
over recent years include:
• 
Deployed proprietary alternative anode technology to reduce energy 
required in producing electrowon copper; 
• 
Used excess process heat from the sulfur burner at our Safford mine 
in Arizona to generate up to 15 megawatts (MW) of power for 
continuous use at mine processing operations; 
• 
Provided mining-related property for a combined 20 MW of solar 
power generation in Arizona;
• 
Implemented High Pressure Grinding Rolls, the first application 
in the global copper industry, resulting in a greater than 15 percent 
reduction in grinding energy requirements;
• 
Installed high-efficiency ball mills and a hydraulic roll crusher 
to process higher volumes of ore at our U.S. flagship Morenci 
operation in Arizona, resulting in an approximately 25 percent more 
energy-efficient crushing circuit;
• 
Developed an approach to achieve energy-efficient blasting and 
downstream crushing and grinding operations; and
• 
Maintained ISO 50001 certification at our Atlantic Copper smelter 
in Spain for its energy management system. 
Our mining operations are currently not located in jurisdictions 
where there is a direct cost associated with our GHG emissions. 
However, from a medium and long-term perspective, we may 
experience increased costs relating to our GHG emissions for 
mining as a result of regulatory initiatives in the U.S. and other 
countries where we operate. In addition, the cost of electricity and 
other inputs that we purchase may increase if our suppliers incur 
increased costs from the regulation of their GHG emissions. We have 
modeled a hypothetical carbon tax of $50 per metric ton on 2014 
total GHG emissions (Scope I and II) associated with our global 
copper mines. The associated hypothetical increase in operating 
costs would not necessitate operating plan changes as it is similar to 
possible fluctuations in mined ore grades. Applying this model to our 
forecasted emissions profile and five-year copper production plans 
does not alter our current operating pans.
ENVIRONMENT
We have received independent verification of our GHG emissions inventory 
for years 2007-2014. 
2014 TOTAL (SCOPE I and II) CARBON DIOXIDE 
EQUIVALENT EMISSIONS
By Region
	
50%	 
North America
	
28%	
Indonesia
	17%	
South America
	 3%	
Africa
	 2%	
Europe
a. Associated with the self-generating coal-fired power facility at PTFI.
b. 
Emissions from non-energy consumption processes including leaching of 
calcite-containing ore, lime manufacturing, iron removal and refrigerants.
2014 DIRECT (SCOPE I) CARBON DIOXIDE 
EQUIVALENT EMISSIONS
By Fuel Type
58%
	
30%
	 6%
	 6%
	
Liquid Fuel 
Hydrocarbons
Coala
Gaseous Fuel 
Hydrocarbons
Otherb
29   
2014 WORKING TOWARD SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT
WATER SUPPLY AND MANAGEMENT
Our mining operations require significant quantities of water for 
mining and ore processing, and most of our operations in North and 
South America are in arid regions. We used approximately 1,325 
million cubic meters of water in our operating processes in 2014, of 
which approximately 79 percent was recycled water. The majority of 
our recycled water originates from reclaimed water capture at tailings 
storage facilities and leach pads. Our reported overall water use, 
including recycled water, increased in 2014 due to the inclusion of our 
Arizona mining operations in our 2014 water data. We expect our 
absolute water use to increase in the future as we continue to advance 
brownfield growth projects. 
Mining operations in arid regions use operational-based water 
models to understand water use, recycling opportunities and 
operational losses such as evaporation. Through this process we have 
identified additional operational practices where recycled water is 
being used that was not quantified in prior reporting, which in turn 
has contributed to the overall increase in percentage of total recycled 
water use. 
Although the potential physical impacts of climate change on our 
operations are highly uncertain, operations in arid regions also 
conduct annual scenario planning to evaluate hypothetical reductions 
in total water availability and hypothetical extreme precipitation 
events. Our water management includes identifying actions to help us 
adapt our operations to possible water shortages or surpluses.
Access to sufficient quantities of clean water is a critical concern 
of many, from governments to communities to agricultural 
and industrial entities. We explore mutual opportunities with 
stakeholders as we continue to make long-term investments in water 
supply projects to support our operating and growth plans. For 
example, water for our Cerro Verde mining operation in Peru, which 
lies within an arid region, comes from renewable sources through 
a series of storage reservoirs on the Rio Chili watershed. These 
reservoirs collect water primarily from seasonal precipitation and 
support communities, agriculture and mining interests. As the mine 
progresses towards completing the installation of its new concentrator 
it is constructing a municipal wastewater treatment plant for the
city of Arequipa. Cerro Verde has obtained authorization to reuse
treated wastewater at an annual average rate of 1 cubic meter per
second for ore processing. The wastewater treatment plant is 
expected to improve regional water quality, reduce waterborne 
illnesses and enhance the value of local agricultural products while 
providing supplemental water for an economically important project 
for the region.
During 2014, the Company executed new water lease options to 
store renewable surface water supplies at underground recharge 
facilities within Arizona for future use in support of existing mine 
operations, drought backup or to support future mine expansions. 
The Company has also applied for additional allocations of renewable 
surface water in Arizona (Central Arizona Project allocations) and 
has received a preliminary recommendation from the state’s water 
agency supporting a water allocation. This process requires a federal 
environmental review which is expected to be completed during 2016.
TAILINGS AND WASTE ROCK
The waste rock (including overburden) and tailings that we produce 
represent our largest volume of waste. Managing the volume of 
waste rock and tailings produced in our mining operations presents 
significant environmental, safety and engineering challenges. In 
2014, we produced approximately 380 million and 180 million 
metric tons of waste rock and tailings, respectively. The primary risks 
associated with managing waste rock stockpiles and tailings relate to 
structural stability, geochemistry, water quality and dust generation. 
Management of this waste is regulated in the jurisdictions where 
we operate, and our programs are designed to be in compliance 
with applicable national, state and local laws, permits and approved 
Environmental Impact Studies.
In July 2014, Climax Molybdenum’s state-of-the-art water treatment facility began 
operations to treat up to 14,000 gallons per minute from the Mayflower Tailings Storage 
Facility. The treated water is discharged into Ten Mile Creek, which supports local 
fisheries and recreation areas in Summit County, Colorado.
ENVIRONMENT
2014 WATER USE BY SOURCE
1,325 Million Cubic Meters
	
79%
	16%
	 4%
	 1%
Recycled Water
Surface/Ground 
Water
Storm Water
Other
30 
Freeport-McMoRan currently operates 17 tailings storage facilities 
(TSFs) and manages 52 TSFs that are inactive or have been fully 
reclaimed. At our Cerro Verde operation in Peru, we advanced 
construction on the starter dam of what will be one of the largest 
TSFs in the global mining sector, with a targeted capacity to retain 
approximately 2 billion metric tons of tailings material. In connection 
with completion of the mill expansion at our Morenci, Arizona 
operation in 2014, we increased the operation’s TSF capacity by 
approximately 568 million metric tons. 
At the operational level, TSF stability is managed by qualified 
internal engineers at our operations and reviewed by qualified 
external Engineer(s) of Record (EORs). We follow established 
operations, maintenance and communication protocols. In this 
process, we regularly inspect and monitor phreatic level trends, 
deposition plans, water management controls, seepage management, 
decant systems and other stability components. In addition, we 
periodically review as-built insitu conditions through field and 
laboratory geotechnical testing programs. 
At the corporate level, TSF stability is managed through our Tailings 
Stewardship Program, which includes a multi-disciplinary group of 
internal and external experts, the Tailings Stewardship Team (TST), 
who evaluate the design, operation and maintenance of our TSFs to 
ensure that we are following good stewardship practices. In 2014, our 
TST conducted annual field inspections at 17 active and 20 inactive 
TSFs. We also seek the advice of Technical Review Boards, which 
are comprised of internationally recognized experts retained by us, 
regarding our EORs’ design and analysis, as well as our management 
of dam stability to ensure alignment with industry best practices. 
Following the August 4, 2014 tailings dam failure at the Imperial 
Metals-owned Mount Polley Mine in British Columbia, which was 
one of the largest tailings slurry spills ever recorded, our internal 
tailings experts reviewed publicly available information, including 
the Independent Expert Engineering Investigation and Review 
Panel’s post-failure report published in January 2015, and confirmed 
that the processes and systems under our Tailings Stewardship 
Program are aligned with current state-of-the-practice and the 
Panel’s recommendations. 
PTFI’s controlled riverine tailings management system, which has 
been approved by the Indonesian government, uses the unnavigable 
river system in the mountainous highlands near our mine to transport 
tailings to an engineered area in the lowlands where the tailings and 
natural sediments are managed in a deposition area referred to as 
the ModADA. Levees have been constructed to laterally contain the 
footprint of the tailings and to limit their impact in the lowlands. 
The ModADA Management Board (MMB) is a multi-disciplinary 
expert panel that meets on-site approximately twice each year to 
assess performance and risks associated with the ModADA and 
coastal zone area. The MMB focuses on the structural integrity of 
the levees and the geochemical stability of the deposition area, as well 
as associated stakeholder engagement. PTFI also hosts a Tailings 
Management Communication Forum, comprised of government 
stakeholders, academia and NGOs, which convenes periodically to 
discuss PTFI’s controlled riverine tailings management system and 
associated opportunities, including tailings utilization programs. 
At TSFs located in arid regions, our tailings management program 
includes measures to reduce fugitive dust emissions from the surface 
of tailings impoundments, and increase reclaimed water capture to 
reduce freshwater consumption. Our efforts to limit dust generation 
include the application of magnesium chloride, polymers, watering 
and wind fencing. 
Waste rock and overburden are managed in stockpiles for possible 
future mineral recovery, reclamation or other projects. These 
stockpiles are regularly monitored and evaluated for structural 
stability in accordance with local seismic design criteria. At PTFI, 
overburden stockpiles are subject to erosion caused by the large 
ENVIRONMENT
At the Maurujaya Reclamation and Biodiversity Research Center (left), located on a 
retired tailings deposition area in the lowlands, PTFI collaborates with government 
agencies and universities to research reclamation techniques. The center also serves as 
a world-class location for environmental education.
The natural colonization of tall reeds (Phragmites karka) on the western boundary of the 
230 square kilometer ModADA
31   
2014 WORKING TOWARD SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT
amounts of rainfall in the region (average annual rainfall is 200 
inches). The eroded stockpile material is eventually deposited in 
the tailings management area in the lowlands. This additional 
material, while predicted in our environmental studies, influences 
both the amounts and timing of deposition of finer tailings material 
in the estuary. 
BIODIVERSITY 
We are committed to identifying the impacts of our operations and, 
where practicable, implementing actions that conserve and enhance 
biodiversity. All operating mines have developed biodiversity 
management plans and Land Management Plans (LMPs), with the 
assistance of our corporate Biodiversity Task Force. Biodiversity 
management plans identify potential biodiversity projects through a 
process that includes landscape-scale habitat inventory, assessment 
of biodiversity risks (linked with the operation’s Environmental 
Management System), identification of biodiversity opportunities 
and prioritization of projects. The plans generally consist of voluntary 
projects conducted in partnership with stakeholder groups, including 
government agencies, academic institutions and NGOs. LMPs 
provide the mechanism through which biodiversity considerations 
are incorporated into the site-specific planning process to minimize 
adverse impacts to biodiversity where practicable. LMPs consist of data 
overlays that illustrate the location and extent of significant biodiversity 
resources within and adjacent to mine sites. 
As of December 2014, 13 Freeport-McMoRan sites were certified 
by the Wildlife Habitat Council’s (WHC) Wildlife at Work program, 
which recognizes activities that create, conserve and restore wildlife 
habitat on corporate lands. Six sites were certified by the WHC 
Corporate Lands for Learning program, which recognizes activities to 
promote environmental education and outreach initiatives in local 
communities. PTFI received the prestigious Corporate Lands for 
Learning of the Year award for outstanding conservation education, 
stewardship and voluntary employee efforts. In addition, WHC, 
together with Bat Conservation International (BCI), honored Cerro 
Verde with the Bat Conservation Action award, which recognizes 
programs that actively promote bat habitat through enhancement and 
management activities. Cerro Verde received the award for its efforts 
to monitor and protect the Peruvian long-snouted bat (Platalina 
genovensium), an IUCN listed species. BCI has continued regular 
monitoring of the Mexican free-tailed bat population at Morenci 
since the bats’ maternity roost was protected in 2010. Results indicate 
that the population has increased from 1.12 million to 1.35 million 
individuals in the past year.
In 2014, Safford operations partnered with Wild at Heart, an 
Arizona-based nonprofit dedicated to wildlife conservation, to 
relocate 20 displaced Burrowing Owls into an artificial habitat 
created on Company property. Community Development staff used 
the release as an opportunity to promote owl-focused education 
activities to volunteers and community members. In the past year, 15 
of our operations created pollinator gardens not only to increase the 
diversity of nectar and pollen sources but also to provide communities 
with a setting to promote concepts of STEM education. To further 
promote pollinator conservation efforts, Freeport-McMoRan, 
in conjunction with the WHC and other conservation partners, 
developed a series of professional development courses for personnel 
on topics related to protection of pollinators, the enhancement 
of pollinator habitat and the potential of incorporating STEM 
education on pollinators more fully into Company programs. 
The Atlantic Copper Foundation received the Andalucía 
Environment Award in the Business and Environment category, 
recognizing the Foundation’s work to educate community 
stakeholders about the second most significant wetland reserve in 
Andalucía, the Marismas del Odiel Natural Park, which is part of a 
UNESCO World Network of Biosphere Reserves. Located adjacent 
to Atlantic Copper, Freeport-McMoRan’s smelter in Huelva, Spain, 
Marismas del Odiel is a large estuary of the Odiel and Tinto Rivers, 
and consists of several smaller protected areas inside the park. The 
Foundation sponsors an environmental education program for 
children called “My Wetlands, My Schools” as well as an Explorers’ 
School Day Camp at the park.
An Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) was 
prepared for Cerro Verde’s large-scale expansion, which identified 
project impacts to areas of modified and natural habitat that are host to 
an assortment of floral and faunal species (including guanaco, Peruvian 
long-snouted bat and a variety of cacti species). Resulting mitigation 
measures identified were added to Cerro Verde’s existing Biodiversity 
Management Plan which already included a suite of measures for 
mitigating impacts to the same habitats and species. Subsequently, an 
Environmental and Social Due Diligence (ESDD) review was carried 
out on the expansion project in preparation for a credit agreement 
ENVIRONMENT
A female guanaco (Lama guanicoe) at Cerro Verde mine near Arequipa, Peru.
32 
between Cerro Verde and a consortium of Equator Principles Financial 
Institutions. The independent ESDD included a recommendation to 
clarify and enhance alignment of Cerro Verde’s existing Biodiversity 
Management Plan with IFC Performance Standard 6. In response 
to this recommendation, Cerro Verde prepared a Biodiversity Action 
Plan, which further described specific mitigation measures and their 
contributions to species conservation for each of the Endangered, 
Critically Endangered, Endemic, and Restricted-Range species 
identified during the ESIA. The biodiversity-related recommendations 
from the ESDD review have been fully addressed and assured by an 
independent third party in 2014. 
Freeport-McMoRan continues to manage Peck’s Lake, a former oxbow 
of the Verde River located near Clarkdale, Arizona. Peck’s Lake and 
the adjacent Tavasci Marsh form an Audubon Important Bird Area, 
and provide valuable wildlife habitat for a number of migrating, 
breeding and over-wintering bird species. Since 2012, Freeport-
McMoRan has been controlling invasive aquatic plant species in the 
lake, with the goal of enhancing diverse native habitats for wildlife in 
this regionally unique and valuable aquatic ecosystem. We also work 
regularly with our lessees and tenants to maximize the value of our 
holdings including financial contributions for the construction and 
installation of wildlife friendly watering infrastructure and fencing. 
Through established partnerships with local, regional, state and federal 
agencies, Freeport-McMoRan and its lessees and tenants have been 
able to perform these improvement projects annually.
PTFI maintains a comprehensive environmental monitoring program 
throughout its project area, including the estuary downstream of the 
ModADA. Independent lines of evidence continue to indicate the 
reversible nature of impacts at the end of mining (with the exception 
of topographical changes) as predicted during the AMDAL 
(Environmental and Social Impact Assessment) process.
TFM manages copper and cobalt mining and processing facilities 
within a 1,600-square-kilometer concession in Katanga Province, 
DRC, within a region referred to as the Katanga Copper Arc. The 
Katanga Copper Arc is geologically unique in that the significant 
copper-cobalt deposits occur at the ground surface in the form of 
hills. These hills and associated rock outcrops, which are the target 
of mining activities, support unique copper-cobalt clearings which 
contrast sharply with surrounding Miombo woodland forest. These 
clearings represent unique ecosystems that support numerous plant 
species that have evolved on highly mineralized soils, and the region 
has long been recognized by the scientific community as a hotspot for 
endemic metallophyte plants. To date, scientists have identified a total 
of 39 species of concern within the TFM concession. Consequently, 
the copper-cobalt ecosystems and associated plant clearings are 
considered the priority biodiversity issue for TFM. TFM continues its 
efforts to construct artificial ecosystems for plants transplanted prior 
to any commercial mining disturbance. In 2014, TFM completed 
construction of the Mwadinkomba Phase I artificial ecosystem that 
encompasses approximately 3 hectares (2.75 hectares of bulk topsoil 
and 0.25 hectares of vegetative mats) as well as the Fungurume Phase 
I artificial ecosystem that encompasses approximately 11 hectares 
(10.25 hectares of bulk topsoil and 0.94 hectares of vegetative mats).
We continue to closely monitor developing concepts, including 
no net loss, net positive impacts and ecosystem services. In 2014, 
we participated in Business for Social Responsibility workshops 
and initiatives related to ecosystem services assessment tools and, 
along with several other large multinational corporations, worked 
to address definitions, indicators and disclosures used to define 
and understand ecosystem service risks and opportunities. We also 
participate in the ICMM Biodiversity Working Group. As this 
field evolves, we will continue to enhance communications on our 
biodiversity systems and initiatives.
ENVIRONMENT
PTFI monitors bird species on Ajkwa and Waii Islands, which were formed by fine tailings 
material and sediment from natural erosion processes. Since monitoring began in 2009, 
109 different bird species have been recorded utilizing the islands as habitat including 
the Australian pelican (Pelecanus conspicillatus) shown above on Ajkwa Island. 
Artisanal mining impacts highly distinctive habitats where plant species of concern have 
evolved on highly mineralized soils. Pictured above, a rock outcrop within the TFM 
concession that has been the target of illegal artisanal mining.
33   
2014 WORKING TOWARD SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT
Since 2011, Freeport-McMoRan employees have participated in the Company’s annual biodiversity photo contest. Each year 
approximately 400 photos are submitted by employees, and the contest successfully engages our workforce on biodiversity 
appreciation and to promote habitats at our worldwide operations. Winning photos from the popular contest are showcased 
within the Wildlife Habitat Council’s Corporate Homes for Wildlife calendar, which is distributed internationally. The 
calendar showcases efforts by member companies to enhance and conserve wildlife habitat on corporate lands. Winning photos 
selected by the Company’s Biodiversity Task Force are presented below.
2014 Winning Photos
An Eastern collared lizard
at the Bagdad mine
A white-nosed coati near 
the Morenci mine
ENVIRONMENT
34 
TREND DATA
2010
2011
2012
      2013
      2014
Workforcea
Employees 
29,700
31,800
34,000
36,100
35,000
Contractors 
22,300
27,800
27,100
38,400
46,300
Percent Employees Under Collective Bargaining Agreements
44%
49%
48%
49%
48%
Safety & Healtha
Fatalities 
2
5
6
35
7
Total Recordable Incident Rateb
0.65
0.61
0.58
0.74
0.56
Occupational Illness Cases
6
16
25
41
46
Environment
Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions (million metric tons)
5.6
5.4
5.7
5.9
5.2
Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions (million metric tons)
4.4
4.6
4.0
4.3
4.3
Total Water Consumptionc (million cubic meters)
630
600 
665 
690 
1,325
Percent Recycled Waterc
66%
66%
71% 
69% 
79%
Reportable spills or releases of hazardous or toxic chemicals
10
11
12
16
14
Notices of Violations related to permit exceedances, spills, 
releases or other compliance matters
6
6
4
10
11
Environmental Penaltiesd ($ thousands)
$       83
$       75
$       47
$      80
$      124
Social
Community Investments ($ millions)
$     189
$      191 
$      173
$     173
$      198
Cash Payments to Governmentsa,e ($ millions)
$  3,744
$ 4,838
$  2,984
$  2,814
$  3,355
Direct Economic Contributionsa,e ($ millions)
$13,902
$16,559
$14,470
$17,283
$17,030
a. Includes FM O&G beginning June 1, 2013
b. TRIR = [(Fatalities + Lost Time Incidents + Restricted Duty Incidents + Medical Treatment) x 200,000] / Total Hours Worked
c. Excludes all facilities located in Arizona for years 2010-2013 due to water rights litigation
d. Penalties are typically paid in periods subsequent to the year of the environmental event and/or enforcement action
e. Please see detailed information in our WTSD reports published on fcx.com/sd
TREND DATA
35   
2014 WORKING TOWARD SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT
