4  |  2019 Sustainability Report
OUR APPROACH
Our company is a leading responsible copper producer­
 – Freeport: Foremost in 
Copper. Our commitment to responsible copper production is visible in everything 
we do, driven by our core values of Safety, Respect, Integrity, Excellence and 
Commitment. Our values direct the decisions we make as a company and as 
individual employees. These values represent who we are and how we work – 
everyone, everywhere, every day. Our focus on responsible production is critical 
to establish and maintain acceptance from our local stakeholders through shared 
value creation and to meet society's responsible sourcing objectives necessary to 
supply the world with responsible copper.
Defining and implementing responsible production at Freeport-McMoRan is  
an iterative process focused on continuous improvement. The process 
incorporates our internal governance and policies as well as our external 
voluntary commitments. Ongoing stakeholder engagement is fundamental to 
informing our policies and processes as well as for sharing best practices and  
our performance across various ESG topics. Regular measurement and reporting 
supports our understanding of our current performance and the actions we need 
to take to improve. Third-party validation of our reporting supports us in meeting 
our internal and external commitments. The graphic below describes how we 
implement responsible production at Freeport-McMoRan. 
GOVERNANCE
VALIDATION
POLICIES & 
PRACTICES
STAKEHOLDER 
ENGAGEMENT
VOLUNTARY 
COMMITMENTS
RISK REGISTER
ACTIONS
MEASURE & 
REPORT
5
Our dedication to responsible 
copper production is visible in 
everything we do, driven by 
our core values: Safety, 
Respect, Integrity, Excellence 
and Commitment
The Safford pit and mining complex in Arizona.
OUR APPROACH
6  |  2019 Sustainability Report
Governance
At Freeport-McMoRan, sustainability is embedded in our values and business 
strategy. Governance and oversight of sustainability at the company starts with the 
Board of Directors (the Board) and cascades through leadership to our sites. Good 
governance requires strong leadership to ensure that the values of the company are 
integrated into everyday operations and business decisions. It also means having the 
structures and processes in place to facilitate decision-making and actions that 
advance the interests of our stakeholders. 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The Freeport-McMoRan Board oversees and guides the company’s business  
strategy. One of the Board’s primary responsibilities is to provide risk oversight  
on the company’s policies and practices and their implementation throughout  
the organization. 
In its risk oversight role, the Board reviews, evaluates and discusses with members of 
management whether the risk management processes designed and implemented 
are adequate in identifying, assessing, managing and mitigating material risks facing 
the company.
To support its risk oversight responsibilities, the Board has four standing committees, 
each composed entirely of independent directors: Audit, Compensation, Nominating 
and Corporate Governance, and Corporate Responsibility. Each committee regularly 
reports to the full Board.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE
The Corporate Responsibility Committee (CRC), on behalf of the Board, is responsible 
for providing oversight to the company’s management team on environmental and 
social matters. The CRC regularly reviews the effectiveness of management’s 
strategies, programs and policy implementation with respect to health and safety, 
BOARD OF DIrectors
Executive Leadership (Ceo/cfo)
Site general managers
Site-level sustainable development leaders
Sustainable development leadersHip team
Business Unit  
Presidents
Corporate Administrative 
Group VPs
Subject matter experts
Corporate Responsibility Committee 
Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee
Audit Committee              Compensation Committee
7
security, human rights, employees and communities (including diversity and inclusion 
initiatives), the environment – including climate-related risks and opportunities, water 
management, tailings stewardship, community investment programs, government and 
stakeholder relations, and political and charitable contributions.
During 2019, the CRC met three times, and our CRC Chair attended a site visit at  
our Sierrita and Miami operations in Arizona. The CRC also received an update on 
management’s engagement with the financial sector on key ESG matters, received 
various reports and considered numerous items with a particular focus on the topics  
in the sidebar.
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT LEADERSHIP TEAM
Our Chief Executive Officer (CEO) has ultimate responsibility for the company’s 
sustainability performance. The company’s Sustainability Development Leadership 
Team (SDLT) includes members of the management team tasked with defining the 
sustainability strategy and implementing our policies, systems and programs across 
the business. The SDLT regularly reports to executive leadership, including our CEO and 
Chief Financial Officer, and members of the SDLT report to the CRC on key ESG matters. 
The SDLT is sponsored by our Senior Vice President and Chief Administrative  
Officer and is led by our Vice President of Environmental Services and Sustainable 
Development, with participation from other members of the SDLT including our  
Chief Operating Officer, business unit Presidents, and Vice Presidents or senior 
representatives from groups including safety, security, supply chain, human resources, 
sales, legal, compliance, sustainability and finance functions. 
Executive officers are held accountable for the company’s sustainability  
performance through the company’s performance-based annual incentive program 
(AIP). Sustainability metrics (ESG) collectively account for 25% of the AIP.
For additional details on our Board, 
its committees, charters and 
governance, please refer to 
Freeport-McMoRan’s 2020 Proxy 
Statement and the corporate 
governance section of our website. 
2019 CRC DISCUSSION TOPICS
ENVIRONMENTAL 
Environmental programs update
Climate report preparation
Tailings management & 
stewardship program
SOCIAL 
Health & safety (including  
root cause analysis and  
corrective actions)
Social investment & charitable 
contributions
Diversity & inclusion initiatives
Human Rights policy & program 
(update on Corporate Human 
Rights Benchmark results)
GOVERNANCE 
Responsible Sourcing 
framework update
Adoption of Responsible  
Sourcing of Minerals policy
Update on political spending report
Adoption of the 2018 UK Modern 
Slavery Act Statement
Reclamation demonstration area in the tailings deposition area at Grasberg, Indonesia.
OUR APPROACH
8  |  2019 Sustainability Report
Principles of Business Conduct
At Freeport-McMoRan, we are guided by our Principles of 
Business Conduct (PBC). Our PBC is the cornerstone of our 
commitment to ethical business practices. 
It sets forth the global system of principles that our workforce 
must follow in all activities – from complying with laws to 
avoiding conflicts of interest to treating fellow colleagues and 
stakeholders with respect. The PBC highlights our core values 
– Safety, Respect, Integrity, Excellence and Commitment –  
and provides guidance for the application of these values to 
our business. It also defines the expected behavior of all of our 
employees and the Board itself. 
Our PBC and corporate governance guidelines, along with the 
charters of our Board committees, provide the framework for 
the governance of our company and reflect the Board’s 
commitment to monitor the effectiveness of policy and 
decision-making at both the Board and management levels.
We conduct comprehensive training on our PBC, including 
annual certification by management-level employees and 
induction training for all new employees. This process  
consists of in-person or computer-based trainings and 
requires employees to certify that they understand it and  
have no known instances of non-compliance. Managers  
and supervisors also are responsible for ensuring that the 
employees who report to them understand these principles. 
Please refer to page 23 of this report for more information on 
our Compliance Line and grievance management.
POLICIES & PRACTICES
RESPECT
INTEGRITY
SAFETY
EXCELLENCE
   COMMITMENT
9
Policies & Practices 
Our PBC, together with our global policies and practices, detail our expected behaviors and commitments to our stakeholders. 
Freeport-McMoRan’s policies are listed in the table below and also are available in the governance section of our website.
Outlines procedures to meet the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other relevant anti-corruption 
laws, including laws in the countries where we operate.
Recognizes the vital role of stakeholder engagement and calls for collaboration with communities, including 
indigenous and vulnerable populations, to minimize and mitigate adverse impacts and pursue opportunities 
to maximize benefits. 
Outlines our duty to minimize the impact of our operations on the environment and to protect and enhance 
the quality of the environment in areas where we operate, including commitments to achieve ISO 14001 
certification at all operating facilities, support biodiversity programs in operational areas, and remediate 
sites for which we are responsible.
Outlines our dedication to respecting and promoting human rights wherever we do business and requires us to 
conduct business in a manner consistent with the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human 
Rights. The Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights are the guidelines for our security programs.
Our practice sets forth our expectations regarding political activity and spending and applies to  
Freeport-McMoRan and its affiliated political action committees.
Outlines our commitment to producing and sourcing minerals and metals responsibly, including  
respecting human rights and preventing bribery, fraud and corruption, and implementing the Organization 
of Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Guidelines for Responsible Mineral Supply Chains in 
Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas. 
Establishes our objective of zero workplace injuries and occupational illnesses and benchmarks to 
evaluate our performance. The policy also addresses the implementation of safety and industrial health 
audits at our operations on a regular basis.
We believe in doing business only with suppliers and contractors who demonstrate the highest  
standards of ethical business conduct. The Supplier Code of Conduct is based on the PBC and outlines  
our expectations for suppliers. 
ANTI-CORRUPTION
COMMUNITY
ENVIRONMENTAL
HUMAN RIGHTS
POLITICAL ACTIVITY 
& SPENDING
RESPONSIBLE 
SOURCING OF 
MINERALS
SAFETY & HEALTH
SUPPLIER CODE 
OF CONDUCT
We are guided by 
our Principles of 
Business Conduct, 
which highlights our 
core values
Our Cerro Verde mine in Peru supports organic quinoa farms in the Arequipa region.
OUR APPROACH
12  |  2019 Sustainability Report
Defining Responsible Production 
Freeport-McMoRan is Foremost in Copper. Critical to this is  
our role in setting the benchmark for Responsible Production 
 in the industry. Being a Responsible Producer means integrating 
sustainability in everything we do, everywhere, every day.  
This includes understanding the needs of our local and global 
stakeholders and working with institutions, partners and 
associations to innovate and drive change across the industry. 
We do this by identifying the commitments that will move  
the industry forward and enable us to make meaningful 
advancements at our operations and in our supply chains, such 
as the UNGPs and the VPs. Being a Responsible Producer also 
means purposefully working toward achieving the SDGs within 
our local communities as well as in our value chains. We work 
globally to translate these commitments to our business via the 
development of common industry frameworks. 
FRAMEWORK DEVELOPMENT 
In 2019, we continued our work with both the ICMM and ICA to 
develop site-based sustainability frameworks that aim to 
provide greater assurance and transparency to stakeholders 
while continuously improving conditions at our operations. 
Following comprehensive engagement with stakeholders, 
ICMM membership approved and published 38 performance 
expectations in late 2019, designed to augment its long held  
10 Mining Principles for sustainable development. These 
expectations, along with topic specific Position Statements 
and assurance and validation requirements, define ICMM’s 
membership commitments. The 38 performance expectations 
must be validated by a third-party at a site level, with annual 
activities published, including how expectations will be met 
where a site falls short. 
Also in 2019, the ICA developed a continual improvement 
responsible production framework called the Copper Mark. 
This voluntary framework requires that copper producers 
undertake third-party assessments against their performance 
on 32 requirements across ESG issues. The Copper Mark 
framework currently is focused on copper producers at the 
beginning of the supply chain, but it intends to develop criteria 
for fabricators and component producers in the coming years 
with the goal of establishing a chain of custody for downstream 
companies, such as automobile and electronics producers. 
While both frameworks are functionally equivalent, the Copper 
Mark is designed specifically for the copper industry and 
intends to grow to connect the entire value chain for copper 
over time. In both cases, Freeport-McMoRan played a key role 
in the development of the requirements. In 2019, ahead of 
ICMM's required timing and Copper Mark's launch, all FCX sites 
self-assessed against both sets of criteria and Cerro Verde 
underwent third-party validation.
Community agriculture support programs in Arequipa, Peru.
The Risk Register
Being a Responsible Producer also means evaluating ourselves 
against our commitments at both a site and corporate level and 
reporting regularly to our stakeholders in a transparent manner. 
In order to translate our commitments to our everyday work, we  
use our Sustainable Development Risk Register (the Risk Register) 
process globally to identify and prioritize sustainability risks and 
actions. Identified risks are mitigated using local and global topic 
specific management strategies. The Risk Register prioritizes the 
most significant risks that could have negative consequences to  
our business and our stakeholders across areas including health  
and safety, human rights, environmental management, community 
development, and economic impacts. 
By doing so, the Risk Register enables teams to prioritize their  
work and uncover unidentified risks in addition to examining new 
opportunities that can further drive our commitment to sustainable 
development. For example, the nature of the issues present at a  
mine in an arid region versus a tropical region are different as are  
the issues present at a location with political instability versus those 
in a location with stability. We work collaboratively to implement  
our various commitments, and use of the Risk Register allows 
management teams to tailor their site-level priorities, while  
ensuring the overall implementation is consistent globally. 
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE RISK REGISTER
The corporate Sustainable Development department works with 
subject matter experts globally to develop and maintain the Risk 
Register, updating it with new topics as they become relevant and 
working hand in hand with operations’ team members so that 
prioritization processes are consistent with corporate procedures. 
The risks included in the Risk Register are mapped from our 
commitments to enable the Risk Register to be the focal point of 
internal and external assurance at both the corporate level and 
operating sites. In 2019, we updated the Risk Register to include  
all 38 Performance Expectations as well as Copper Mark 
requirements. We have also mapped the SDGs to the Risk Register 
to support identification of challenges and opportunities to 
progress our contribution across the goals. 
2019 INTERNAL EVALUATION PROGRESS
In 2019, we developed a tool to assess our  
sites globally against both the updated ICMM 
Principles and Copper Mark frameworks to 
determine areas of strength and improvement. 
This process set the stage for focus in several 
key programs discussed later in this report, 
including, but not limited to: continuing UNGP 
implementation through stronger management 
systems, continuing human rights impact 
assessments and training, developing a 
long-term climate change strategy, 
strengthening our ambition with regards to 
biodiversity, improving our approach to building 
trust with indigenous peoples, and deepening 
our approach to supply chain due diligence. 
THE COPPER MARK 
The Copper Mark is an assurance framework 
developed to demonstrate the copper 
industry’s responsible production practices 
and contribution to the United Nations SDGs 
– beginning with SDG 12, Responsible 
Production and Consumption. The Copper 
Mark goes beyond compliance and focuses on 
continuous improvement of responsible 
production as well as the industry’s 
contribution to advancing other United Nations 
SDGs beyond SDG 12. The Copper Mark sets 
the overall objectives for the industry as a 
whole and drives continuous improvement so 
that copper producers can improve the lives of 
their colleagues and neighbors, strengthen the 
communities where they do business, and 
increase the value delivered to customers and 
their consumers. Following its initial launch and 
expansion of participants, the Copper Mark 
intends to develop a chain of custody  
system and begin taking applications from 
downstream companies such as fabricators. 
Find out more at www.coppermark.org.
Being a Responsible Producer means 
integrating sustainability in everything 
we do, everywhere, every day
13
OUR APPROACH
14  |  2019 Sustainability Report
In 2019,  
Freeport-McMoRan’s  
direct economic 
contributions totaled 
$13.6 billion
Economic Value Contributed 
We contribute to the wealth and prosperity of the countries, regions and communities where we operate by generating economic 
value that includes tax and royalty payments, local hiring and procurement, and community investments. Mining is an inherently 
cyclical business with production levels and profits fluctuating over the life of the mine, which can impact our social investments 
and other sustainability programs. 
In 2019, Freeport-McMoRan’s direct economic contributions totaled $13.6 billion, which includes $9.6 billion in payments to 
suppliers, $2.4 billion in employee wages and benefits, $1.0 billion in payments to providers of capital,  $415 million in taxes, 
royalties and other payments to governments, and $100 million in direct community investments. We also made payments  
of $2.7 billion for capital expenditures. Please refer to our 2019 Annual Report for more detailed information on our financial 
performance and to page 38 of this report for more information on our 2019 community investments.
2019 SUMMARY OF KEY ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTIONS BY OPERATING REGION
For the year ended  
December 31, 2019 ($ millions)
north 
america1
south 
america
indonesia
europe
other 
countries
total
Payments to suppliers
$3,864
$1,589
$1,709
$2,416
$11
$9,589
Employee wages and benefits
$1,475
$446
$406
$103
$5
$2,435
Payments to providers of capital:
 
   Dividends and distributions
$291
$73
$9
–
–
$373
   Interest
$423
$156
$25
$40
–
$644
(Refunds from) payments to 
governments2
($242)
$65
$583
$4
$5
$415
Community investments
$46
$9
$43
$2
–
$100
Direct economic contributions
$5,857
$2,338
$2,775
$2,565
$21
$13,556
Capital expenditures3
$970
$256
$1,369
$56
$1
$2,652
1	 Includes parent company results.	
	
2	 Excludes employee payroll taxes, dividends, property taxes and certain other taxes, which are included in payments to suppliers and dividends. A reconciliation to the 2019 Cash Payments to 
Governments schedule on page 19 can be found on Freeport-McMoRan's website.
3	 Includes costs for capital projects, which include additional payments to suppliers, employee wages and benefits, payments to providers of capital and payments to governments, not included in 
the payments to government line in table above.
Note:  These amounts were derived primarily from FCX’s publicly reported segment data. For disclosure of FCX’s segment data in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), 
see FCX’s 2019 Form 10-K pages 159 – 165.	
	
	
	
	
Communities near El Abra, Chile.
15
Performance Targets
2019 TARGET
2019 PERFORMANCE
2020 TARGET
GOVERNANCE
Comprehensive training on PBC,  
including annual certification of 
management-level employees
All employees were trained in 2019, 
including a 100% certification rate of 
management-level employees
Comprehensive training on PBC,  
including annual certification of 
management-level employees
Train 90% of selected employees on 
anti-corruption laws, regulations and 
company policies and procedures
In 2019, 100% of the employees 
selected to participate in the online 
training completed the course
Train 90% of selected employees on 
anti-corruption laws, regulations and 
company policies and procedures
SOCIAL
HEALTH & SAFETY
Incur zero fatalities
We regret to report 3 work-related 
fatalities occurred in 2019
Incur zero fatalities
Total recordable incident rate (TRIR)1  
of 0.73
At 0.74 for 2019, we did not meet  
our target TRIR
Target of TRIR of 0.70
HUMAN RIGHTS
Incur zero gross human rights2 
violations at our operations by 
employees and contractors
We did not incur any gross human rights 
violations at our operations caused by 
employees or contractors
Incur zero gross human rights 
violations at our operations by 
employees and contractors
WORKFORCE
Increase the percentage of women, 
including representation in managerial 
roles, to 15%
Women comprise 13% of our employee 
population and hold 12% of all 
managerial positions
Increase the percentage of women, 
including representation in managerial 
roles, to 15%
COMMUNITIES
Invest (in aggregate) 1% of the 
previous 3 years' annual mining 
operations revenue in community 
programs ($166 million in 2019)
Approximately $100 million was 
invested in community programs  
across our operations ($66 million 
below our 2019 target)
Invest (in aggregate) 1% of the 
previous 3 years' annual mining 
operations revenue in community 
programs (2020: $165 million)
ENVIRONMENT
ENVIRONMENTAL EVENTS
Incur zero significant  
environmental events3
We did not incur any significant 
environmental events
Incur zero significant  
environmental events
Incur zero penalties in amounts 
exceeding $100,000
We did not pay any individual penalties 
exceeding $100,000 in 2019
Incur zero penalties in amounts 
exceeding $100,000
CLIMATE
N/A
N/A
Publish climate report in 2020
N/A
N/A
Achieve 15% reduction in CO2e4 per 
ton of copper cathode produced in the 
Americas by 2030, on a 2018 baseline
WATER
N/A
N/A
Publish water stewardship report  
in 2020
1	 TRIR = [(Fatalities + Lost-Time Incidents + Restricted Duty Incidents + Medical Treatment) x 200,000]/Total Hours Worked.
2	 Gross Human Rights Violation – There is no uniform definition under international law; however, the United Nations Office of the High Commissioner report: The Corporate Responsibility to 
Respect Human Rights – An Interpretive Guide, provides guidance on identifying such types of violations.
3	 Significant environmental event is defined as a consequence rating of 3 or higher on our Risk Register.
4	 CO2e = carbon dioxide equivalent.
Note: All performance targets are annually recurring and company-wide, unless otherwise noted.
16  |  2019 Sustainability Report
BUSINESS INTEGRITY
Freeport-McMoRan is committed to the highest level of ethical and legal conduct in  
all of our business activities. Acting ethically involves more than simply complying with 
laws and regulations. It involves recognition that our decisions affect others. By keeping 
this in mind, we aspire to earn the respect, trust and confidence of our stakeholders. 
Anti-Corruption
Freeport-McMoRan maintains zero tolerance for corruption of any kind, and we expect 
the same from our employees, contractors and suppliers. Freeport-McMoRan does 
not obtain a business advantage through bribery, improper payments, kickbacks or 
any other illegal means. No employee or contractor may offer, pay, solicit or accept 
bribes in any form or under any circumstance, including facilitation payments. In 
addition, payments to government officials are forbidden.
Our Anti-Corruption Policy and Guidelines require compliance with the United States 
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and other applicable laws of the countries and 
jurisdictions where we operate. We recognize that any violation of the FCPA or other 
anti-corruption laws of jurisdictions where we operate could result in significant 
criminal or civil fines and penalties, litigation and loss of operating licenses or permits, 
as well as significant reputational risk. 
In addition to our annual PBC training, we provide mandatory annual anti-corruption 
training for specific groups of employees using a risk-based approach. For example, 
senior-level employees who may interact with government officials are required to 
complete the training. The online training course supplements our classroom training 
programs to extend the reach of our overall compliance efforts. 
In recognition of the potential legal and reputational liability that could result from 
actions of our business partners and contractors under the FCPA and other laws, the 
company implements an online due diligence platform, the Freeport Compliance 
eXchange (FCeX). FCeX is a survey-based software platform designed to assess risk 
in the areas of anti-corruption, international trade and human rights. FCeX has 
enhanced our ability to identify, assess and mitigate compliance risks. 
Annually, we perform company-wide audits with the assistance of our internal audit firm, 
Deloitte, to assess risk and plan for the following year’s audit strategy. Formal fraud risk 
assessments have been implemented at Atlantic Copper, El Abra, Cerro Verde, PT-FI 
and our corporate offices and mapped with business controls, which are tested and 
reviewed annually. 
Human rights training event at Cerro Verde, Peru
17
Acting ethically involves 
more than simply 
complying with laws and 
regulations, it involves 
recognition that our  
actions affect others
Ore crusher at the Grasberg Block Cave underground mine in Indonesia.
18  |  2019 Sustainability Report
18  |  2019 Sustainability Report
business integrity
Political Engagement 
Freeport-McMoRan is committed to the highest level of ethical 
and legal conduct regarding its political activity and spending 
practices, and to rigorous compliance with applicable laws  
and regulations.
We recognize that public policy decisions can significantly 
affect our operations, future business opportunities, 
employees, shareholders and the communities where  
we operate. For this reason, we exercise our right and 
responsibility to participate in public policy matters by 
following public matters that are important to us and 
interacting, where appropriate, with elected and appointed 
government officials, regulators and their staff. 
We are a member of various trade associations and other 
organizations that provide information and assistance with 
policy issues of concern to the company. When we fund a trade 
association, we do so because we believe the association 
generally represents our best interests, although importantly, 
we may not support an association’s position on every issue.
In addition to operating in the United States, we have 
significant operations in Chile, Indonesia, Peru and Spain.  
We work cooperatively with local, regional and national 
governments wherever we have operations. From time to  
time, issues may arise in these jurisdictions that affect our 
operations. With concurrence from senior management, we 
may engage in dialogue with government officials on issues 
that affect our business goals and objectives, and the jobs  
that are thereby created. We only engage in non-partisan 
political activity and spending outside of the United States  
as permitted by, and in strict compliance with, applicable laws 
and regulations, including the FCPA.
The company’s political activity and spending practices are 
overseen and approved by senior management. Annually,  
the Board’s CRC reviews our political activity and spending 
practices. Our political spending also is subject to legal review 
and external audit.
Our practice is to make information concerning all political 
contributions available to our stakeholders annually by posting 
our political contributions to the sustainability section of our 
company website.
Lone star open-pit development in Arizona.
19
Transparency of Government Payments
Freeport-McMoRan operations contribute significantly to national, regional and local development through 
payments to host governments via taxes, royalties and other financial obligations. Increased transparency 
of natural resource revenues and payments promotes better governance and accountability regarding the 
distribution of natural resource revenues. 
The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) is a global standard to promote transparent and 
accountable management of natural resources. Freeport-McMoRan has endorsed and committed to 
support the EITI since 2008. This support includes direct financial contributions from the company as  
well as contributions through the ICMM of which we are a founding member. Freeport-McMoRan maintains 
significant mining operations in Indonesia and Peru, both of which are EITI-implementing countries, and  
we actively support and participate in associated in-country processes. 
In addition to our country-level EITI commitments and regulatory reporting obligations, our practice is  
to voluntarily report cash payments to governments in all jurisdictions where we conduct business, as 
presented in the table below.
CASH PAYMENTS TO GOVERNMENTS1
For the year ended  
December 31, 2019 ($ millions)
U.S.
Chile
Peru
Indonesia
Other 
Countries2
Total
Corporate Income Taxes,  
Net of Refunds
 $(267)
 $14 
 $22 
 $448 
 $9 
 $226 
Withholding Taxes on  
Foreign Dividends
$1
$2
$5
$35
$1
$44
Employee Payroll Taxes3
$343
$10
$54
$80
$27
$514
Dividends
-
-
-
-
-
-
Royalties and Net  
Severance Taxes
$25
$1
$28
$135
-
$189
Property Taxes
$74
-
-
$68
$2
$144
Other Taxes and Fees4
$42
$15
$55
$196
($13)
$295
Total
 $218 
 $42 
 $164 
 $962 
 $26 
 $1,412 
1	 This schedule reflects a voluntary effort by Freeport-McMoRan to capture its cash payments to governments (net of refunds).
2	 Represents cash payments to governments by Freeport-McMoRan’s other business groups that are located outside of the countries where Freeport-McMoRan 
conducts its primary operations.
3	 Includes payroll taxes collected on behalf of employees and paid to governments.
4	 Includes customs and export duties, as well as withholding tax on foreign services.
20  |  2019 Sustainability Report
20  |  2019 Sustainability Report
business integrity
Responsible Value Chains
Over 70% of the world’s copper is used in applications that deliver electricity. This 
makes copper a crucial contributor to the energy transition and a decarbonized world. 
As the energy transition continues, copper use is expected to increase in electric 
vehicles and their charging stations, renewable energy technologies such as solar  
and wind, as well as the necessary connections for these technologies to grids. The 
increased copper demand should not come at a cost to sustainability. As one of the 
world's largest copper producers, we understand that we play a critical role in this 
transition and we work hard to responsibly deliver our copper to customers and 
markets around the world. We do this in three key ways: (1) through our own 
responsible sourcing efforts, working to identify and mitigate risks in our supply 
chains; (2) managing the risks of our products and by-products in use by ensuring 
these risks are well understood and managed; and (3) working to better understand 
the full life cycle impacts of our products along the value chain.
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING OF MINERALS & METALS
In 2019, we adopted and published our new Responsible Sourcing of Minerals Policy, 
which commits the business to identifying and mitigating human rights violations in our 
supply chains of minerals and metals used in our downstream processing facilities. The 
policy describes how we implement the Organization of Economic Co-operation and 
Development (OECD) Guidelines on Mineral Supply Chains in Conflict Affected and 
High Risk Areas  in our supply chain of minerals and metals. It is critical to address the 
requirements of the new London Metals Exchange Policy on Responsible Sourcing, 
where we trade several of our products. It is also a requirement of both the ICMM 
Mining Principles and the Copper Mark. While we had previously implemented a similar 
policy at our Kokkola cobalt refinery in Finland, in 2019, we began extending this focus 
to the rest of the business with a first priority on our two copper smelters where we buy 
concentrates and other mineral bearing materials. 
To do this we assess our incoming metal and mineral supply chains to identify 
potential “flags” with regard to what are defined as Annex II risks – such as bribery 
>70%  
of the world’s  
copper is used in  
applications that 
deliver electricity1
MINING
RECYCLING
SMELTING &  
REFINING
SEMI- 
FABRICATION
PRODUCT 
MANUFACTURE
USE  
PHASE
THE COPPER LIFE CYCLE
1	 Copperalliance.org
21
and corruption, trafficking, and child or forced labor – by the OECD Guidelines. We 
then go through a risk-based due diligence process to help us better understand 
these “flags.” These results then are reviewed by the applicable internal committee 
and appropriate actions are taken. Actions can include working together with  
the supplier to identify and implement an action plan, termination, and general 
collaboration to build capacity. In 2019, one supplier was eliminated from our supply 
chain, and due diligence was initiated for several more. 
In 2020, we will begin implementing the program in the molybdenum business and will 
strengthen training globally to help improve our management system. For a complete 
report on these activities, please see our website. 
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING OF GOODS & SERVICES
Our Supplier Code of Conduct and compliance screening processes are the foundation 
of our responsible sourcing program for goods and services. This is a significant task,  
as it equates to over 20,000 suppliers that provide a wide breadth of goods and services 
– from small catering businesses in remote locations to large multi-nationals that 
produce heavy machinery. In 2019, we continued strengthening this approach by 
developing a more advanced risk and data-based responsible sourcing framework. 
Our work on this framework in 2019 focused on updating our screening systems  
for identifying risks across suppliers. This included working to update supplier 
questionnaires used in our FCeX process as well as subscribing to country-level  
risk indices. It also included selecting a new enterprise software that supports the 
new Responsible Sourcing framework. 
In 2020, we will be implementing this system along with the updated screening 
process to: (1) enable efficient risk assessment, which includes identification and 
management of risk, (2) track progress against any required action plans, and  
(3) support collaboration with our suppliers. As we continue to implement the 
Responsible Sourcing framework in 2020, we also will focus on improving visibility  
of local spend and increasing opportunities for local suppliers where feasible.
Electrowinning at our operations in El Abra, Chile.
22  |  2019 Sustainability Report
22  |  2019 Sustainability Report
business integrity
HOLISTIC ASSESSMENT OF OUR VALUE CHAINS 
In 2019, we continued our work to update our Life Cycle Assessments (LCA)  
of cobalt and molybdenum. LCAs enable us to contribute meaningfully to the  
global dialogue on the circular economy and the energy transition by providing  
comprehensive data on the environmental aspects of our products to stakeholders, 
such as industry associations or customers. This data supports industry associations 
in their development of industry averages, which are useful for larger studies 
conducted by regulators and researchers that capture the use of our products in 
downstream applications such as power cables and automobiles. The data is also 
useful to customers who are evaluating sourcing options. Internally, LCAs help us 
better understand the positive and negative impacts of changes in technologies and 
mine plans on environmental issues such as climate change and local air pollution. 
Over the next two years, we will utilize these studies to assist in more advanced 
climate change assessments.
SUPPLIER  
CODE OF 
CONDUCT
MONITORING
SUPPLY  
CHAIN 
MAPPING
TRACKING 
PERFORMANCE  
& REPORTING
RISK 
ASSESSMENT
REMEDIATION
SUPPLIER DUE DILIGENCE ENGAGEMENT
20,000+ 
suppliers provide a 
wide breadth of 
goods and services 
– from small catering 
businesses in remote 
locations to large 
multi-nationals that 
produce heavy 
machinery 
Compliance Line 
Among other reporting mechanisms, Freeport-McMoRan maintains a Compliance 
Line to provide guidance and assistance to workforce members with any questions  
or concerns related to our PBC, policies or procedures. To encourage our workforce 
to report potential violations of business conduct, our Compliance Line enables 
anonymous reporting. The Compliance Line also is available to suppliers (including 
contractors) through our Supplier Code of Conduct. 
During 2019, 285 reports were made through the Freeport-McMoRan Compliance 
Line relating to various topics, including employee workplace conduct, environment, 
health and safety, protecting company assets, and conflicts of interest. All reports 
are investigated and, if substantiated, the appropriate disciplinary action is taken, up 
to and including termination of employment.
23
The El Abra open-pit copper mine in Northern Chile.
24  |  2019 Sustainability Report
PEOPLE
At the core of our business is people. At each of our operations, Freeport-McMoRan 
aims to be a preferred employer, neighbor, business partner and supplier. We are 
committed to responsibly managing our social impacts on people, which includes 
focusing on the health, safety and security of our workforce and host communities  
and respecting the rights of people who may be impacted by our business. 
Freeport-McMoRan’s global workforce is the foundation of our company’s success. 
Our workforce is passionate about supporting the communities where we live and  
work and making a positive impact in the world. 
In the communities where we operate, we aim to work in partnership with our local 
stakeholders to understand their needs and support them in developing their  
own sustainable futures. We are deeply committed to supporting the health and  
well-being of our host communities, including the indigenous peoples near  
some of our operations, by supporting education, health, capacity building and 
economic development. 
Our various global policies – Community, Safety and Health, Human Rights, and PBC 
– and our commitments as a founding member of ICMM collectively outline our 
expectations for helping to protect, support and champion people in a sustained 
manner. Freeport-McMoRan believes that when people are empowered to make 
decisions to determine their own future – whether it be our workforce or communities 
– we can transform tomorrow together.
FROM VISION
TO ACTION
The graphic below describes how we 
implement responsible production at 
Freeport-McMoRan, from Vision to 
Action. 
RISK REGISTER 
PROCESS 
+ 
ACTION 
+ 
MEASUREMENT, REPORTING 
& EXTERNAL THIRD-PARTY 
ASSURANCE
INTERNAL 
POLICIES 
& PRACTICES
VOLUNTARY 
COMMITMENTS
STAKEHOLDER 
ENGAGEMENT
VI
SI
ON
 &
 V
AL
Ue
S
GO
VE
RN
AN
CE
Human rights training event at Cerro Verde, Peru
25
We are committed to 
responsibly managing our 
social impacts, which include 
focusing on the health, safety 
and security of our workforce 
and host communities 
Human rights training event at Cerro Verde, Peru.
Health & Safety
WHY IT MATTERS?
Mining by its nature is associated with high-risk work that must 
be carefully understood and managed. On a daily basis, our 
workforce engages in activities such as drilling and blasting 
rock, operating heavy machinery, using chemicals, working 
with high voltage electricity, working at heights, working with 
high temperature materials as well as other complex tasks. At 
Freeport-McMoRan, our highest priority is the health, safety 
and well-being of our employees, contractors, suppliers and 
the communities where we operate. We understand that the 
safety of our people is critical to our operational success and 
efficiency and ultimately to our ability to deliver long-term value 
to our stakeholders.
OUR APPROACH
At the foundation of our sustainability approach – and one of  
our core values – is safety. Our objective is to achieve zero 
workplace fatalities and to decrease injuries and occupational 
illnesses. We are committed to providing a safe and healthy 
workplace and providing the training, tools and resources 
needed so our workforce can identify risks and consistently 
apply effective controls. We share information about potential 
fatal events, near misses and best practices throughout the 
company and engage with industry peers to continuously 
improve our health and safety performance.
During 2019, we developed a refreshed health and safety 
strategy and slogan, Safe Production Matters, to globally align 
priorities, empower safe work behaviors and strengthen our 
safety culture. We are focused on fatality prevention through 
the use of data and technology as well as behavioral science 
principles. We have identified key focus areas we believe will 
have the most positive effect on our health and safety success 
today and in the future. The strategy is being rolled out 
company-wide in 2020.
Policies & Programs
•	
Safety and Health Policy – States our commitments, 
processes and management systems to meet our health 
and safety objectives. 
•	
Contractor Health and Safety Manual – Defines the 
minimum expectations and requirements for contractors 
working at our operations.
•	
Occupational Health and Safety Management System – 
Our framework for managing risks and compliance 
obligations is certified in accordance with the 
internationally recognized Occupational Health and 
Safety Assessment (OHSAS) 18001 Standard. OHSAS 
requires third-party site-level verification of requirements, 
with a goal to prevent fatalities and reduce incidents. This 
standard is being replaced with the new ISO 45001 Health 
and Safety Management System, and company-wide 
conversion currently is expected to be complete in 2021. 
Our Vice President of Health and Safety oversees safety in  
the organization, including implementation of company-wide 
initiatives, safety audit programs and incident investigations. 
Safety performance is reported regularly to executive 
management. The Board’s CRC reviews adherence to our 
safety and health policy, safety statistics and trends, and 
incident reports and provides input on the overall direction  
of the company’s health and safety programs. 
people
26  |  2019 Sustainability Report
El Abra workforce in Chile. 
COPPER & PUBLIC HEALTH: METAL OF THE FUTURE
The COVID-19 global health pandemic has spotlighted 
the substantial antimicrobial properties of copper.  
The same properties that make copper a good 
conductor of electricity also enable it to kill microbes 
effectively. Because copper has a free electron in its 
orbital shell, it easily takes part in oxidation-reductions, 
or redox, reactions. These properties enable copper to 
reduce, and in certain cases significantly diminish, the 
transmission of bacteria, viruses and other pathogens in 
health-care or general public settings. In a hospital, this 
can be the difference between a patient leaving healthy 
or acquiring an additional illness while admitted. The 
World Health Organization estimates that globally over 
$80 billion is spent on hospital acquired infections every 
year. Copper can play an important role in reducing 
these infections, an important contribution to 
sustainability. Learn more at www.copper.org.
Anyone on the  
job is expected to 
STOP WORK 
immediately if critical 
controls are missing, 
deemed ineffective or 
if an unsafe working 
condition exists
Fatality Prevention 
Our Fatal Risk Management (FRM) program is aimed at achieving our objective  
of zero workplace fatalities by focusing on preventative measures. As part of  
the program, we seek to identify potentially fatal risks in the field and apply the 
controls most critical for avoidance. To date, we have identified 23 potentially 
fatal risks common to some or all of our operations and placed highly visible fatal 
risk icon placards at work areas where these specific risks are present. 
Our FRM program is underpinned by our culture of Safe Production and leading  
by example at all levels of the organization. We expect every employee to take 
ownership of their own safety and the safety of their co-workers and the 
community around them. Our front-line supervisors play a vital role in reviewing 
assigned tasks for each shift and assisting crewmembers with identifying 
potentially fatal risks and ensuring everyone on the job is engaged and 
understands the hazards and required critical controls. 
We regularly verify and audit our critical controls to assess their proper use and 
effectiveness. Critical control verifications prioritize high-risk tasks that rely 
more on behaviors than engineered controls and provide immediate leading 
indicator data to strengthen our FRM program as well as our overall health and 
safety system. We use a mobile platform that guides verifiers through a checklist 
to validate critical controls are in place and effectively implemented for a task 
with exposure to a fatal risk. The system captures any variance with our critical 
controls and allows us to create action plans to address these gaps.
Fatal Events
Regrettably, we incurred three fatal injuries in 2019: two from a single event at our 
Grasberg operation in Indonesia and one at Tyrone in New Mexico. In 2019, one 
fatality occurred related to a 2018 incident at our Chino operations in New Mexico 
(included in 2018 statistics per the date of the injury per U.S. Mine Safety and Health 
Administration (MSHA) requirements). While we have a strong culture of safety at all 
levels of our organization, these incidents underscore that we must do better. 
To facilitate learning from fatal and potentially fatal events (PFE) and to help 
prevent reoccurrence, we conduct an investigation that includes a root cause 
analysis for every incident. Findings, including pre-incident failures and post-
incident corrective actions, are formally shared across the organization. When a 
fatality or PFE occurs, we review the incident with senior management and site 
senior leadership to understand what happened, take corrective action as 
appropriate, and discuss opportunities for company-wide improvements. We  
also review and discuss all fatalities with the Board and the CRC. 
27
2019 WORKPLACE FATALITIES*
PT-FI 
Papua, Indonesia 
Two employees were 
inundated with wet 
muck and killed when a 
mud rush occurred in 
an ore bin at the 
Grasberg open pit. 
TYRONE 
New Mexico, USA
A contractor was  
fatally injured when a 
relief valve failed during 
the installation of 
hydraulic jacks to lift a 
mine shovel.
CHINO 
New Mexico, USA
An employee was 
seriously injured in a 
2018 event when the 
man lift failed while 
working on an electronic 
shovel. The individual 
passed away in 2019.
*	
2019 fatalities included one fatality related to an 
incident that occurred in 2018 at our Chino 
operations in New Mexico. The individual passed 
away in 2019, and the incident was not reported 
in 2018 due to this timing. Per U.S. MSHA 
regulations, the fatality has been retroactively 
accounted for in 2018 statistics.
28  |  2019 Sustainability Report
people
HEALTH & SAFETY PERFORMANCE DATA
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
Total Recordable Events 
535
474
445
466
526
% High Risk 1
10%
17%
23%
11%
11%
Total Recordable Incident Rate 
(TRIR)2
0.61
0.72
0.76
0.71
0.74
TRIR Annual Target
0.56
0.56
0.63
0.70
0.73
Number of Fatalities3
3
6
5
1
3
1	 Our Sustainable Development Risk Matrix defines high-risk events as incidents that have the potential to result in 
permanent disabilities or a fatality.
2	 TRIR = [(Fatalities + Lost-time Incidents + Restricted Duty Incidents + Medical Treatment) x 200,000]/Total Hours Worked.
3	 2019 fatalities included one fatality related to an incident that occurred in 2018 at our Chino operations in New Mexico.  
The individual passed away in 2019, and the incident was not reported in 2018 due to this timing. Per U.S. MSHA regulations, 
the fatality has been retroactively accounted for in 2018 TRIR.
Note: Our safety statistics include both employees and contractors at all of our locations. We define total recordable incidents 
according to the requirements of the U.S. Department of Labor’s Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA).
PERFORMANCE
We measure our safety performance through regularly established benchmarks, 
including our company-wide Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR), which includes 
employees and contractors. In 2019, we worked 142 million hours and recorded 526 
reportable injuries during the year, compared to 131 million hours and 466 reportable 
injuries in 2018. Our 2019 TRIR was 0.74 per 200,000 man-hours worked, missing our 
0.73 target for the year.  
Part of the reason for the increased total reportable injuries and TRIR is due to 
low-energy events such as sprains and strains at certain North American sites, 
which has been a trend for the last several years. In 2019, we implemented an 
Industrial Athlete Program to help address and prevent the low-energy incidents 
through the promotion of pre-shift warm-ups. The voluntary program is designed  
to support our workforce in staying healthy and fit for duty. 
Conversely, we are pleased to see a continued downward trend in the number  
of high-risk safety incidents, which reflects our sharp focus on workplace tasks 
with the highest potential consequences and critical control implementation to 
minimize risk and prevent fatalities. In an effort to better understand and define 
the spectrum of our high-risk recordable incidents, in 2017, we added an 
additional category to our risk matrix to quantify high-risk events as either 
“actionable” or “monitor.”  While we have always been focused on high-risk 
events, this change resulted in elevating more incidents to a higher level, which 
drove increased action items to help prevent reoccurrence. This explains the 
increase in high-risk events in 2017, and the subsequent improvement in 2018 
and 2019, as the action items implemented supported the decreasing number 
of high-risk incidents.
We are pleased  
to see a continued 
downward trend in 
the number of 
high-risk safety 
incidents
25%
20%
15%
10%
5%
0
10%
17%
23%
11%
11%
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 
TOTAL RECORDABLE EVENTS 
% HIGH RISK1
1	 Our Sustainable Development Risk Matrix defines 
high risk events (incidents that have the potential 
to result in permanent disabilities or a fatality).
29
Human Rights
WHY IT MATTERS?
Human rights are internationally recognized, defined in the Universal Declaration of 
Human Rights and codified in international law. Mining activities have the potential  
to impact the way people enjoy these rights – whether as employees, contractors, 
suppliers, community members, human rights defenders or others. Freeport-
McMoRan recognizes that respecting human rights, as outlined in the UN Guiding 
Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs), is an expectation of stakeholders 
that can influence our social license to operate and affect market access for our 
products. Not only does it make good business sense – treating people with respect  
is simply the right thing to do. 
OUR APPROACH
Respect is a core value for Freeport-McMoRan. We are committed to respecting the 
rights of all people, including our employees, contractors and suppliers, community 
members, and others who may potentially be impacted by our business activities. We 
take this obligation seriously in all aspects of our business, and we expect the same of 
our business partners. 
Not only is our responsibility to respect human rights a business imperative, we also 
believe it represents a unique opportunity. We aim to promote human rights through 
proactive engagement with host governments and communities and by providing 
training to our employees and contractors. Our corporate level Human Rights Working 
Group supports our site-level implementation of the UNGPs.
We participate in multi-industry dialogues on respect for human rights including 
Business for Social Responsibility’s human rights working group, Sustainability 50’s 
executive-level, peer-to-peer collaboration forum on human rights, ICMM’s 
Community Support Working Group, and the Voluntary Principles on Security and 
Human Rights (VPs). These external initiatives, together with local and international-
level stakeholder engagement, influence our human rights approach. 
Policies & Programs
•	
Human Rights Policy – States our commitments to the Universal Declaration  
of Human Rights, the UNGPs and the VPs. 
•	
Supplier Code of Conduct – Based on our PBC and sets forth our expectations 
for suppliers and contractors in areas such as safety, human rights, anti-
corruption, community and environment. The company has incorporated 
standard language on human rights into our contract templates.
•	
Responsible Sourcing of Minerals Policy – Adopted and published in 2019, 
commits our business to identifying and mitigating human rights violations in our 
supply chains of minerals and metals for our downstream processing facilities. 
Application of our Human Rights Policy is supported by our PBC and other core 
policies (Anti-Corruption, Community, Environmental, and Safety and Health). These 
policies and supporting management systems along with relevant external standards 
and initiatives form the overall framework that guides our sustainability programs and 
management of human rights risks. 
We are 
committed  
to respecting  
the rights of  
all people
Construction of the 
underground rail system 
at the Grasberg Block 
Cave in Indonesia. 
30  |  2019 Sustainability Report
people
PERFORMANCE
We developed a dashboard of human rights issues related to our operational 
activities to frame our UNGPs implementation. The dashboard reflects the scope  
of our potential human rights risks and impacts. Each dashboard topic is mapped  
to specific human rights to support a comprehensive, rights-driven approach.
As we seek to further embed respect for human rights across our organizational 
activities, we use our Risk Register process to identify the risks to people at each 
operation and address potential and actual impacts on rights-holders. This process  
is informed by ongoing stakeholder engagement, grievance management and the 
results of human rights impact assessments (HRIAs). 
HRIAs are the primary way we conduct specific human rights due diligence at our 
operations. Our HRIAs are supported by Verisk Maplecroft, a third-party global risk 
analytics and advisory firm, using a methodology aligned with the UNGPs. They 
involve direct input from a broad cross-section of internal and external rights-holders 
and support continuous improvement of our management systems by testing their 
effectiveness in identifying and addressing potential, actual and perceived human 
rights risks and impacts. Our Human Rights Dashboard defines the scope of these 
assessments. 
The responsible sourcing programs we are advancing also support human rights 
due diligence for suppliers of both goods and services and minerals and metals for 
further processing.
HUMAN RIGHTS DASHBOARD 
Topics reflected in the dashboard are mapped to recognized international human rights
employees
value chain
community
environment
third parties
Working 
conditions
Working 
conditions
Standards of 
living / quality  
of life
Pollution
Conduct of private 
security forces
Safe and healthy 
working 
conditions
Safe and healthy 
working 
conditions
Community health 
and safety
Water security
Conduct of 
government 
security forces
Discrimination
Discrimination
Economic activity / 
livelihoods
Waste and 
hazardous 
materials 
management
Contribution to 
conflict
Freedom of 
association and 
collective 
bargaining
Freedom of 
association and 
collective 
bargaining
Minorities and 
indigenous 
peoples
Increased 
exposure to 
natural hazards
Presence of 
artisanal / 
small-scale miners
Child labor
Child labor
Displacement / 
resettlement
Corruption
Privacy
Privacy
Cultural heritage
NGOs and civil 
society groups
Forced and 
compulsory labor
Forced and 
compulsory labor
Children's rights, 
including access 
to education
Judicial system 
(access to remedy)
Please refer to the Human 
Rights section of our website 
for more information on our 
overall human rights 
approach, including how we 
are managing salient human 
rights topics. We always are 
open to direct engagement 
with stakeholders on our 
human rights approach.
CORPORATE HUMAN RIGHTS BENCHMARK
In 2019, the CHRB assessed 
Freeport-McMoRan’s human rights 
program and performance and 
ranked us 6th among 200 of the 
largest publicly traded agricultural, 
apparel, extractives and ICT 
manufacturing companies, 1st 
among all North American 
companies assessed, and 3rd 
among all global extractives 
assessed. Learn more at  
www.corporatebenchmark.org.
31
AMERICAS
•	
Following completion of a site-level HRIA in 2018, our Chino and Tyrone operations in New Mexico 
commenced implementation of action plans to address priority risks and impacts during 2019. 
•	
In 2019, we also initiated implementation of an HRIA at our El Abra operation in Chile. An initial desk-
based assessment of human rights risks and impacts was conducted, however field work, initially 
scheduled for November, was deferred due to social unrest throughout the country. We are deferring 
field work until conditions warrant. 
INDONESIA
•	
In 2019, PT-FI continued its Human Rights Ambassador program. Launched in 2018, the program 
provides representatives from contractor companies with “train the trainer” instruction on human 
rights and the VPs. Those trained are responsible to serve as Human Rights Ambassadors within their 
respective companies, promoting awareness of PT-FI’s human rights policy, emphasizing shared 
responsibility in respect for human rights and delivering annual human rights training for their 
company’s workforce conducting work in the PT-FI project area.
•	
During 2019, PT-FI also conducted a project development sustainability review for the construction  
of its new smelter in Gresik, Indonesia. This review process supports the integration of sustainability 
considerations into development or expansion project phases and is designed to help multi-disciplinary 
project teams identify risks, unintended consequences, trade-offs and opportunities – including those 
relating to human rights and security – so they may be addressed early and through each stage of 
project development. 
GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS & REMEDY
While we seek to avoid causing and contributing to adverse impacts on individuals and communities,  
we acknowledge that they may occur. We are committed to providing for or cooperating in remediation of 
adverse impacts that are caused or contributed to by our business activities. 
We have established grievance mechanisms for employees, community members, and members of our supply 
chain and others to report concerns. These mechanisms help us address concerns early and remediate impacts 
directly. The ICMM’s updated good practice guidance on Handling and Resolving Local-level Concerns and 
Grievances, together with input from employees, community members and their legitimate representatives,  
is informing updates to our community grievance mechanism.
VOLUNTARY PRINCIPLES ON SECURITY  
& HUMAN RIGHTS (VPs)
The VPs serve as guidelines for our 
security and human rights programs, 
including interactions with host 
government police and military personnel 
and private security contractors. Our 
annual reports to the Voluntary Principles 
Plenary are available on our website and 
include country implementation details 
for Indonesia and Peru, our higher risk 
jurisdictions for security and human 
rights matters.
Cerro Verde improves irrigation and access to 
clean water to support farming in Arequipa, Peru. 
32  |  2019 Sustainability Report
people
Workforce
WHY IT MATTERS?
Freeport-McMoRan believes that diverse, inclusive and representative workforces 
offer a broad range of experience, knowledge, background, culture and heritage, 
which can drive innovation, enhance our operations and improve our relationships 
with stakeholders. We understand that our people are our greatest strength and are 
our competitive advantage. However, maintaining a skilled, stable and diverse 
workforce in the mining industry can be challenging due to the cyclic nature of mining 
tied to commodity price fluctuations, geographically remote operations, shifting local 
demographics, technological advances that are changing the way we work and 
competition for talent from both inside and outside of the industry. 
OUR APPROACH
Freeport-McMoRan operates in regions of varying ethnic, religious and cultural 
backgrounds, and we often are the largest employer in our local communities. A key to 
our success is the ability to recruit, retain, develop and advance talented employees 
with diverse perspectives. We focus on attracting and retaining talented people by 
offering quality employment with competitive compensation and opportunities for 
professional development. We are committed to fostering a culture that is safety-
focused, respectful, inclusive and representative of the communities where we operate.
Policies & Programs
Our PBC, Human Rights Policy, Supplier Code of Conduct and other core policies 
outline our company culture, our commitment to doing what’s right, and the 
expectations for all employees and contractors. These policies are available in the 
local languages of the regions where we operate, and it is our expectation that our 
workforce understand and comply with our trainings, policies and procedures. 
We respect the rights of our employees, including rights to freedom of association 
and collective bargaining and prohibiting forced, compulsory or child labor and human 
trafficking. We do not tolerate any form of harassment or discrimination against 
individuals based on race, color, sex, religion, national origin, disability, age, veteran’s 
status or any other characteristic protected by applicable law.
PERFORMANCE
At the end of 2019, Freeport-McMoRan’s global workforce was comprised of 
approximately 27,500  employees and 40,600 contractors. The change from the prior 
year of 26,800 employees was due to personnel increases across our North America, 
South America and European operations. Our largest increase was at our Safford 
operations in Arizona due to the development of the new Lone Star mine. 
For more information on our policies, 
please refer to the “Business Integrity” 
section of this report (page 16) and to 
our company website. 
EMPLOYEES
(Approximately  
27,500)
GLOBAL WORKFORCE
(As of December 31, 2019)
North America	
46%
Indonesia	
25%
South America	
24%
Europe/Other	
5%
CONTRACTORS
(Approximately  
40,600)
Indonesia	
54%
North America	
29%
South America	
15%
Europe/Other	
2%
33
DIVERSITY & INCLUSION 
At the end of 2019, 13% of our global workforce was represented by women, flat from 
2018 levels. Representation ranges across geographies with a high of 19% in North 
America to a low of 7% in Indonesia, where we are faced with unique challenges. 
We remain short of achieving our global target of 15% women representation in the 
global workforce. Women made up 21% of our global hires in 2019, helping to increase 
the female share of our workforce over its current level at 13%. However, the 2019 
employee attrition rates among women (12%) remained higher than men (8%), 
demonstrating the challenge of not only attracting talented women into our 
organization, but also ensuring appropriate employee engagement, inclusion and 
career development efforts in order to retain our female employee talent.
In 2019, we launched a global initiative to further strengthen our focus on diversity 
and inclusion in the workplace. Our initial focus areas include executive training and 
various human resource processes, including identifying more diverse applicant 
pools and measuring trends.
WOMEN IN LEADERSHIP POSITIONS (%)
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
Board of Directors
13%
25%
25%
40%
33%
Executive Management 
12%
11%
8%
10%
11%
Management 
11%
11%
11%
12%
12%
Non-Management 
11%
10%
12%
13%
13%
Total Workforce
11%
10%
12%
13%
13%
19%
17%
8%
7%
13%
20%
15%
10%
5%
0%
2019 WOMEN EMPLOYED BY REGION (%)
North America         Europe/Other         South America         Indonesia         FCX Global
In 2019, we 
launched a 
global initiative 
to strengthen 
our focus on 
diversity and 
inclusion in the 
workplace 
34  |  2019 Sustainability Report
people
Americas
•	
Our El Abra operation implemented Chile’s voluntary gender equality and 
work-life balance ordinance to enhance gender equality in the workplace 
through various measures such as equal pay review, training employees on 
managing unconscious bias, providing personal protective equipment  
designed specifically for women, inclusive language and graphics in formal 
communications, and appropriate representation on hiring panels. A third-party 
audit of the management system was conducted in 2019, and the certification 
was awarded in 2020, making El Abra the first private mining company to 
receive this certification in Chile.
Indonesia
•	
At PT-FI, women comprise the majority of our trained MineGem workforce, 
running some of the most advanced robotic haulage technology in PT-FI’s 
underground mines. Of our 51 remote equipment operators, 30 are women –  
half of which are Papuan women. Recruiting women into this role has provided 
additional opportunities as Indonesian law prohibits women from working in 
underground mines. With the use of this technology, PT-FI employees safely 
operate equipment hundreds of feet underground while working from an office 
building on the surface. The results have been positive, with women operators 
achieving higher productivity rates than their male colleagues. 
LOCAL HIRING & SKILLS DEVELOPMENT 
One of our greatest opportunities to contribute to local communities is through local 
employment and capacity building. Local employment directly contributes to the 
economic and social development of surrounding communities. Hiring locally also 
incorporates local cultures and knowledge into our company which can strengthen 
our programs. 
Hiring locally is a commitment we make to the communities surrounding our operations 
and to our host countries. Most people employed at our operations are host country 
nationals. We retain expatriate expertise for managerial and technical roles only when  
it is not available in local communities. To further these efforts, expatriates receive 
cultural training upon their arrival to a new location. On average, expats represent less 
than 1% of people employed at our operations globally. 
In 2020, we will be working to establish more robust identification and analysis of our 
local and national employment rates across our operations. 
Our 2019 Women’s 
Development Day 
was attended by 
more than 200 
employees from 
across our  
North American 
operations, 
providing an 
opportunity for 
networking and 
leadership 
development
Kathleen Quirk, FCX Chief Financial Officer, with women remote equipment 
operators at the Grasberg underground complex in Indonesia.
35
Americas
•	
In North America, we employ 440 Native Americans/Alaskan Natives which 
reflects a 55% increase in the last five years. 
•	
Through collaboration with the San Carlos Apache Tribe, we created the  
San Carlos Training Institute in Arizona in 2012 to increase the skills and 
employability of local and rural workforces. The program curriculum ranges 
from heavy equipment operations and maintenance to electrical applications. 
Since the Institute’s inception, 1,352 students have enrolled in the program, 
including 160 new students in 2019, and 318 graduates have been employed 
with the company. An additional 81 graduates have gained employment 
outside of the company. Through the end of 2019, enrollees had a 50% 
graduation rate. 
Indonesia 
•	
Approximately 98% of PT-FI employees are Indonesian nationals, 40% of  
whom are indigenous Papuans. We continuously are investing in our local 
communities in Papua by implementing programs to support the development 
of their skills and employability.
•	
Our Papuan Sustainable Human Capital Development Program is designed to 
increase opportunities for indigenous Papuans to join our workforce directly  
or through contractors that support our operations. The program includes a  
three-week course to enhance life and work skills by teaching teamwork, 
behavioral safety and workplace compliance expectations. PT-FI also provides 
a monitoring and coaching program to support successful adaptation into the 
working environment. Through 2019, a total of 244 Papuans have completed  
the program and now are working with contractor organizations throughout 
PT-FI operations.
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT 
We proactively communicate information to our employees. The feedback we 
receive through employee engagement helps us better understand our impact, 
assess emerging issues and address concerns in a timely manner. We engage with 
our employees through various communications channels including our company 
intranet, online collaboration tools, digital signage at sites, employee magazines, 
videos, surveys and access to formal grievance mechanisms. 
In 2019, we implemented a new social media effort for our employees, communities 
and other stakeholders. We also introduced the Agile way of working at our 
Americas operations through our Americas’ Concentrator initiative. Agile principles 
encourage everyone to take ownership and provide ideas and solutions at all levels 
of the organization, which supports improved internal communication, collaboration 
and ultimately increased productivity levels. 
Our engagement efforts include organizational performance improvements using 
varying tools and processes to help our employees grow throughout their careers. 
We also offer courses to enhance the skills of current and future leaders in areas 
such as communication methods, mentoring and time management. 
Employee working at the 
underground Grasberg 
block cave development 
in Indonesia.
36  |  2019 Sustainability Report
EMPLOYEE RETENTION
To help improve our understanding of workforce dynamics and changing trends, we 
track employee turnover, including voluntary resignations, involuntary layoffs and 
retirements. In 2019, our total employee turnover rate was 9%, an increase from 7% 
the year prior. In 2019, the increased turnover rate in Europe/Other was driven by the 
partial sale of our Cobalt business in Finland during the year, which also contributed  
to our higher turnover rate globally. The total turnover rate was 8% among male 
employees and 12% among female employees. Employees under the age of 30 had 
the highest turnover rate at 16%.
LABOR RELATIONS 
During 2019, we continued to maintain positive and collaborative relationships with 
the unions that represent our employees, working cooperatively with 15 unions in 
eight locations worldwide. Approximately 37% of our global employee population is 
covered by collective labor agreements (CLA). Our operations in Indonesia, Europe 
and South America are all covered by a minimum of 65% representation. In North 
America, our workforce is not represented by unions. Our hourly employees elect to 
work directly with company management rather than through union representation 
utilizing our Guiding Principles contract that all workforce members sign when joining 
the organization. It is a contract that sets out how we work together within the values 
of the company to achieve our collective goals. Most recently updated in 2018 with 
input from employees, the Guiding Principles include a problem solving process that 
complements our broader employee grievance mechanisms described above. It is a 
unique approach that adds significant value to both the workforce and the company. 
We engage openly with our employee and union leadership to negotiate and uphold 
labor agreements, recognizing that prolonged strikes or other work stoppages can 
adversely affect our business, our workforce and regional stakeholders. There were 
no strikes or lockouts at any of our operations in 2019. Collective bargaining is 
conducted at locations of mutual agreement, with facility accommodations made 
onsite or in satellite offices for workers' representatives to assemble.
EMPLOYEE TURNOVER BY REGION & GENDER (%)
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
North America
12%
18%
16%
10%
11%
South America
20%
5%
3%
5%
6%
Indonesia
3%
3%
55%
3%
4%
Europe/Other
4%
11%
6%
5%
25%
Total
9%
10%
28%
7%
9%
Male
9%
9%
29%
6%
8%
Female
11%
17%
19%
9%
12%
people
EMPLOYEES UNDER COLLECTIVE 
LABOR AGREEMENTS IN 2019
80%
70%
60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
0%
73%
66%
65%
37%
0%
Indonesia
Europe/Other
South America
North America
FCX Global
In North America,  
our hourly employees 
continue to elect to 
work directly with 
company management 
rather than through 
union representation 
utilizing our Guiding 
Principles contract, 
which adds value to  
the workforce and  
the company
Communities
WHY IT MATTERS?
The relationship between a mine and local communities is 
dynamic. Mining is an inherently cyclical business with 
production levels and profits fluctuating over the life of the 
mine. While the majority of Freeport-McMoRan’s assets are 
long-lived, mining resources are finite. We must aim to support 
our host communities during the entire life-cycle of the mine, 
not only managing and mitigating our impacts, but by providing 
sustainable benefits that will exceed the lifespan of our 
operations. Further, increasing automation and shifts in the 
global economy are changing mining methods, processes and 
labor requirements. Collectively, these challenges make it 
increasingly important for mining companies to work 
collaboratively with local communities to support them in 
developing the necessary skills and capacity to adapt and 
succeed over the long-term. 
OUR APPROACH
Freeport-McMoRan works actively through engagement, 
investment and partnership activities to support our host 
communities in maximizing the social and economic benefits  
of mining. Our work increasingly is focused on supporting our 
communities to develop the requisite skills to successfully 
adapt to technological and economic changes in the future in 
order to reduce their dependency on mining over the long-term. 
This includes building a foundation of resiliency during times of 
commodity market fluctuations or other economic disruptions 
after fluctuations that may have social impacts.
While each of our community programs are tailored to the 
site-specific dynamics of the operation and host communities, 
our overarching objectives in partnership with our local 
stakeholders are to: (1) build enduring trust, (2) minimize or 
mitigate any negative impacts from our operations while 
maximizing the benefits, (3) support our communities in 
building resiliency and citizen well-being over the life of the 
mine, and (4) develop the skills and capacity to thrive beyond 
the mine.
Policies & Programs
•	
Community Policy – Mandates engagement and 
collaboration with local communities to minimize and 
mitigate unavoidable adverse impacts while maximizing 
opportunities to deliver value from our presence.
•	
Engagement and Development Plans – Each of our 
operating mine sites maintains a five-year community 
engagement and development plan, updated annually, 
which provides a strategic framework for their  
approach toward engaging with and providing 
development assistance to the communities and 
neighboring tribal stakeholders near our operations.
37
We are increasingly 
focused on investing in 
the “sustainability of 
people” which includes 
providing the enduring 
skills and opportunities 
individuals need to 
achieve productive 
livelihoods post-mining
Morenci, Safford and our Technology Center partnered to provide a solvent extraction and electrowinning 
(SX-EW) lab for over 100 high school students during Eastern Arizona College’s Chemistry Adventure Day. 
Education is a significant component of our community engagement efforts. 
38  |  2019 Sustainability Report
people
Community Engagement & Social Investments  
Early and ongoing community engagement and constructive 
dialogue is fundamental to understanding our actual, potential 
and perceived impacts, building trust, and identifying social 
investment and development priorities. Our regular engagement 
with communities and stakeholders helps to build a localized 
understanding of what contributes to community welfare, its 
sustainability and any gaps that might exist. It also enables us  
to share information about operational activities and  
facilitate dialogue. 
Our community engagement takes place in a number of 
different formats depending upon the cultural context.  
The primary ways we engage with communities are through 
Community Partnership Panels in the U.S., Community 
Roundtables in South America and Community Development 
and Empowerment Teams in Indonesia. All three models  
focus on transparent communication and dialogue and are 
comprised of local leaders and citizens representing a broad 
range of stakeholder groups in each community. In addition  
to these engagement models, each operation engages with 
stakeholders frequently through situation or topic-specific 
meetings, presentations or community outreach office hours. 
Our social investment programs are informed by our community 
engagement efforts and partner inputs and are focused on 
education, skills development and capacity building, safety and 
health programs, small-scale infrastructure, and identification 
and development of alternative economic opportunities. We 
increasingly are focused on investing in the “sustainability of 
people.” This includes providing enduring and adaptable skills 
and opportunities individuals need to achieve productive 
livelihoods, particularly post-mining, and to play a progressively 
active role in the future prosperity of their own communities.
PERFORMANCE
We held more than 100 community engagement meetings 
through our formalized processes, such as Partnership  
Panels and Roundtables, and an estimated 600 additional 
engagements throughout the year. Our social investment 
programs are funded directly through each operation and  
the respective foundation or community trust funds we have 
established and maintain in the U.S., Chile, Peru and Indonesia. 
We believe communities understand their needs best, and we 
seek to continuously understand those needs through our 
ongoing engagement while also empowering them through 
community-led processes that direct our investments to the 
programs that meet their immediate and longer-term needs. 
Annually, we seek to invest 1% of the averaged previous three 
years revenues into our community programs. Our revenues, 
and corresponding community investments, tend to vary year 
to year due to a variety of factors including the cyclical nature 
of the business. In 2019, Freeport-McMoRan invested $100 
million into social programs around the world, less than our 
2019 target of $166 million. Because the target is a lagging 
metric, it can remain high due to prior year revenues in the face 
of declining commodity prices that decrease revenue and 
community program spending in current or future years, which 
was the case in 2019. Over the last ten years, since we first 
established a community investment target, Freeport-
McMoRan has invested more than $1.8 billion dollars in 
community development initiatives. 
Community Trust Funds	
29%
Safety, Health 
& Environment 	
21%
Education & Training 	
18%
Economic Development  
& Infrastructure	
17%
Other	
14%
Administration	
1%
2019 COMMUNITY 
INVESTMENT
2019 Total:
$100
million
2009 - 2019 CUMULATIVE 
COMMUNITY INVESTMENT
A Total of
$1.8 billion
in community investment
$2000
$1500
$1000
$500
$0
($ MILLIONS)
39
AMERICAS
Community & Economic Development  
•	
In 2019, we invested over $3.6 million in economic 
opportunity and small business initiatives among our U.S. 
operating communities, and an additional $1.5 million in 
projects to strengthen local systems that create a thriving 
business environment. The largest of our programs, 
DreamBuilder, a free, online entrepreneurship education 
and training program for women, continued to expand its 
reach. Now in its eighth year, we’ve helped train more 
60,500 women across 90 countries, primarily the U.S., 
Chile and Peru where we operate, equipping them with the 
skills and confidence needed to become financially 
independent business owners. 
•	
We continued our long-standing partnership with Local 
First Arizona, working with rural businesses to increase 
local spending, develop a process to attract new 
businesses and increase local tourism. In 2019, we 
launched a new pilot effort to provide loans to small 
business owners in Graham County who could not qualify 
for traditional bank loans. To date, the program has a 
95% repayment rate and has encouraged the city of 
Safford to commit additional funds to expand the loan 
pool and stimulate small business growth.  
Education & Training   
•	
Freeport-McMoRan and College Success Arizona (CSA) 
have partnered over the past five years to help students 
statewide leave college with a degree or certification in 
hand. This comprehensive system of support, 
encouragement and accountability is the reason more 
than 70% of CSA scholars graduate from college in six 
	
years – a rate significantly higher than the 26%  
Arizona average. Approximately 70% of CSA scholars, 
particularly those from rural communities, are first-
generation college students, and 85% are from low-
income families. In 2019, we finalized an agreement with 
CSA to administer our scholarship program for Native 
American students from our partner tribes, a population 
with an even higher risk of dropping out, providing 
scholarship funds for tuition and the critical support 
needed to complete their college education.
Health & Nutrition  
•	
In Peru, anemia in children under five years of age is 
widespread, impacting intellectual and cognitive 
development. Cerro Verde’s comprehensive nutrition 
program aims to contribute to the reduction of the 
anemia rate and increase nutrition education in our 
neighboring communities. In the Uchumayo district,  
we provide equipment, screenings, supplements and 
education in coordination with the health centers and 
schools. Through 2019, 55% of children under the age  
of 5 years old have been screened in our direct area of 
influence – the districts of Uchumayo, Yarabamba, 
Tiabaya, La Joya and Matarani Port – and to date we  
have seen a 9% reduction in childhood anemia rates.
•	
We also have trained over 80 public schools in the area  
of influence through our healthy lunchbox project, which 
promotes healthy eating habits in the educational 
community. In coordination with Peru’s National School 
Food Program “Qali Warma,” we support equipping 
kitchens and school canteens and educating mothers 
and food preparation committees on proper nutrition.
In the U.S. alone,  
we invested over  
$5 million  
in programs that 
strengthened economic 
opportunity in our 
communities, with a 
particular focus on small 
business development
Participant in the Dreambuilders program in Peru.
40  |  2019 Sustainability Report
people
INDONESIA
Community & Economic Development  
•	
The Freeport Partnership Fund for Community Development (Partnership Fund) 
contributes 1% of annual PT-FI revenues for use in local community and 
indigenous peoples’ development projects focused on health, education, 
economic development, training and small-scale infrastructure. PT-FI’s 2019 
contribution to the Partnership Fund was $27.7 million, totaling more than $825 
million since its inception in 1996.
•	
During 2019, PT-FI completed a process to convert the management and 
organizational structure of the Partnership Fund into an Indonesian Foundation 
with the goal that the new foundation will eventually achieve financial and 
managerial self-sufficiency and strengthen the long-term effectiveness of 
PT-FI’s social investments. 
Education & Training
•	
Our Nemangkawi Mining Institute (NMI) in Papua, founded in 2003, has placed 
2,764 apprentice graduates into full-time employee and contractor positions at 
PT-FI, 90% of whom are indigenous Papuans. NMI recently evolved its focus on 
upskilling Papuans to support their entry into the workforce anywhere in Papua 
for a sustainable future.
Public Health
•	
Malaria, HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis remain the most common infectious 
diseases that afflict our neighboring communities. Located in the lowland 
town of Timika, the Mitra Masyarakat hospital is PT-FI’s flagship health 
initiative, funded through the Partnership Fund. The hospital has significant 
positive impacts on our neighboring communities by addressing these 
diseases. The hospital also provides Papua’s indigenous populations – the 
Amungme and Kamoro as well as the five neighboring ethnic groups – Dani, 
Damal, Nduga, Mee and Moni (collectively known as the “seven suku”) – with 
free, high-quality health care, including surgical procedures. 
•	
PT-FI also works closely with the local Mimika government to support the 
provision of health services in the region through capacity building, construction 
of clinics and malaria control programs. With the goal of achieving greater 
independency and sustainability of public health care, PT-FI is working to hand 
over PT-FI-run public health infrastructure, services and best practices to the 
local Mimika government.
COMMUNITY GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS
To support constructive engagement and resolution of issues that may arise, we 
maintain site-level grievance mechanisms where community members can share their 
questions, concerns and/or complaints, outside of any other engagement forum. The 
community grievance mechanisms are part of our commitment to provide access to 
remedy. They also serve as an early warning system and help to manage and reduce 
potential risks by identifying and addressing problems before potential escalation into 
larger conflicts. 
41
Our community grievance mechanisms are available in local languages, tailored  
to local cultures and allow us to document issues and concerns raised by local 
community members and respond in a timely manner. Grievances are typically 
received by community engagement team members in the field, through engagement 
at established company/community forums, in writing via physical drop boxes or via 
local telephone hotlines. Regardless of how they are received, they are reported to  
the site Community Grievance Officer, who relays the grievance to the relevant 
department for evaluation. Community engagement team members help investigate 
grievances and work with community members to acknowledge the grievance, 
address concerns, solve problems and mitigate or remedy impacts. For grievances 
with potentially high community impacts, senior management and applicable 
government authorities are engaged, as appropriate. 
During 2019, our global operations recorded 170 community grievances in our  
web based management system predominantly regarding community benefits, 
environmental concerns, health and safety and land rights. This system allows us  
to track grievances, identify thematic trends, report resolutions and measure  
our performance. 
The ICMM’s updated good practice guidance on Handling and Resolving Local-level 
Concerns and Grievances, together with input from community members and their 
representatives, are informing updates to our community mechanisms anticipated for 
rollout in 2021. This guidance integrates the effectiveness criteria outlined in the UNGPs.
United States	
67 
Indonesia	
60
Chile	
29
Peru	
9 
Europe	
5
COMMUNITY 
GRIEVANCES 
TOTAL: 170
Community Benefits	 32%
Other 	
16%
Health & Safety	
16%
Environment	
16%
Land Rights	
12%
Physical Damage 	
5%
Employment 	
2%
Indigenous Peoples	
1%
GRIEVANCE 
TOPICS (%)
Other includes security, town site/housing 
and other grievances not listed above.
2019 GRIEVANCES
Local entrepreneur with his cacao crop in  
the Grasberg Mine project area in Indonesia.
42  |  2019 Sustainability Report
People
Indigenous Peoples
WHY IT MATTERS?
Indigenous peoples have been present for thousands of years in aboriginal territories around the world. These 
populations inhabit landscapes that collectively hold some of the world’s most diverse people, languages, 
cultures and biodiversity. Freeport-McMoRan acknowledges that some indigenous peoples have historically 
occupied areas near our operations or have ancestral connections to these lands, and we are committed to 
engaging with these groups to establish and maintain long-term relationships built on transparency and trust 
that earns our social license to operate.
OUR APPROACH
Freeport-McMoRan’s local stakeholder engagement and social investment objectives include formal 
interactions with indigenous peoples in Papua, Indonesia; Native Americans in the United States; and the 
traditional communities of Alto El Loa in Chile.
Our approach aims to respect the social, economic and cultural rights of indigenous peoples, including 
supporting their effective representation and participation in engagements with our company. This approach 
includes adherence to the ICMM Position Statement on Indigenous Peoples and Mining and working towards 
obtaining free prior and informed consent for new projects and material expansions of existing projects. 
Through ongoing engagement, cultural promotion and preservation projects, as well as training and 
development programs, Freeport-McMoRan seeks to address needs while being sensitive to cultures and 
customs of indigenous people.
AMERICAS
We continue to build our relationships with federally recognized Native American Tribes in the Southwestern 
United States, including the Hualapai Tribe, the San Carlos Apache Tribe, the Tohono O’odham Nation, the 
White Mountain Apache Tribe and other tribes that have historically occupied areas or have other ancestral 
connections to lands near our operations.
During 2019, we maintained our Native American College Scholarship Program, Dreamcatcher 
entrepreneurship training program and San Carlos Training Institute to support skills and education 
development for tribal students. Over the last eight years, 286 college scholarships have been awarded to 
tribal members through our scholarship program, and an additional 67 women entrepreneurs from our 
partner tribes and the Navajo Nation have been trained to start or grow small businesses on their respective 
reservations through Project Dreamcatcher. We also continued our Native American Partnership Fund that 
prioritizes funds to education and training, health and wellness, cultural preservation, economic 
development, and environmental protection and management programs.
In May 2019, due to our ongoing commitment to respect the cultural heritage of Native American tribes and 
to further our mutually respectful relationships with both the Tohono O’odham Nation and the Mescalero 
Apache schools, we were invited to support and participate in the Mescalero Apache school and Mescalero 
Apache families’ annual pilgrimage to an area near our New Mexico operations to harvest agave for their 
cultural use and dietary purposes. We hosted a similar event at our Sierrita operations for Tohono O’odham 
community members.
Our El Abra mine in Chile operates in close proximity to Alto Loa, which is comprised of 12 indigenous 
communities. In 2019, we were actively engaged with 15 indigenous groups near the city of Calama, including 
relationships with seven new indigenous groups that obtained legal recognition during the year. El Abra also 
continued its indigenous peoples apprenticeship program established in 2017 to provide work experience 
for students that have completed their post-secondary education. Seven communities currently participate 
in the program, and through 2019, more than 110 employment positions have been filled by members of 
neighboring communities. 
Our approach 
aims to respect 
the social, 
economic and 
cultural rights  
of indigenous 
peoples
43
INDONESIA
PT-FI has engaged with Papua’s indigenous populations – the Amungme and Kamoro 
as well as the five neighboring ethnic groups – Dani, Damal, Nduga, Mee and Moni 
(collectively known as the “seven suku”) – for decades through multiple formal 
agreements that promote workforce skills training as well as health, education, 
economic development, public infrastructure development, and participatory 
monitoring and evaluation of PT-FI funded projects.
During 2019, PT-FI contributed over $2.2 million to the Tiga Desa (Three Villages) 
Program and has invested over $95 million since it was first established in 2000.  
The program has invested in various community infrastructure projects in the highland 
Amungme communities of Aroanop, Wa’a Banti and Tsinga, which surround the PT-FI 
project area. 
In 2019, PT-FI continued its collaboration with the indigenous Kamoro lowland 
communities. As part of the levee extension construction necessary to maintain the 
safety of our controlled riverine tailings system, some of the traditional waterways 
used by the Kamoro have been impacted. We continued work with the Kamoro on  
the mitigation strategy, which includes regular passenger boats and bus services to 
improve access between coastal villages and Timika to support the development of 
economic livelihoods, health and education. 
The May 2019 cohort of Project DreamCatcher, an entrepreneurial training 
program for Native American women, celebrate their achievement.
44  |  2019 Sustainability Report
ENVIRONMENT
Freeport-McMoRan recognizes that the very nature of our business depends on  
and impacts the natural environment. Our goal is to conduct our mining and processing 
operations in a manner that minimizes adverse impacts on the environment and  
enables ecosystems to be protected and maintained through responsible  
environmental stewardship. 
We believe that environmental protection and stewardship are the keys to ensuring the 
long-term viability of our business, including maintaining the necessary support from our 
host communities and governments. We are committed to sound environmental practices 
at all of our operations with a focus on continuous improvement. 
Our workforce incorporates environmental awareness into their daily activities and 
implement actions necessary to protect the environment. This commitment is  
reflected in the highest level of our executive management and is one of the principal 
responsibilities of the Board’s CRC, which provides oversight to management on the 
effectiveness of our environmental practices. 
POLICIES & PROGRAMS
Our Environmental Policy serves as the framework for the protection of natural 
resources in the regions where we live and work. The policy is based on our objective to 
be compliant with laws and regulations and to minimize environmental impacts using risk 
management strategies based on valid data and sound science. It requires that we 
review and account for the environmental effects of our activities throughout the mining 
life-cycle and that we plan and conduct our operations in a manner that optimizes the 
economic use of resources while minimizing the adverse environmental effects. 
All of our mining and mineral processing operations and technology centers maintain 
Environmental Management Systems (EMS) certified to ISO 14001:2015. As part of  
the EMS, our workforce is trained on site-specific subject areas, receives annual 
environmental refresher training and is monitored closely and supported in the field 
by environmental professionals through our Boots in the Field program. 
Site management teams identify, manage and mitigate environmental risks through 
our Risk Register and the use of environmental critical control systems designed to 
prevent significant environmental incidents from occurring at our operations. We 
maintain a strict focus on implementing critical controls to eliminate off-site releases 
and prevent impacts to water resources.
At the corporate level, we maintain subject matter experts (SMEs) who train, develop 
and support site teams, routinely conduct site visits and manage a group of site-based 
SMEs. Collectively, they are responsible for building technical expertise, ensuring 
consistency in our environmental programs and sharing best practices.
FROM VISION
TO ACTION
The graphic below describes how we 
implement responsible production at 
Freeport-McMoRan, from Vision to 
Action. 
RISK REGISTER 
PROCESS 
+ 
ACTION 
+ 
MEASUREMENT, REPORTING 
& EXTERNAL THIRD-PARTY 
ASSURANCE
INTERNAL 
POLICIES 
& PRACTICES
VOLUNTARY 
COMMITMENTS
STAKEHOLDER 
ENGAGEMENT
VI
SI
ON
 &
 V
AL
Ue
S
GO
VE
RN
AN
CE
45
We are committed to 
sound environmental 
practices at all of our 
operations with a 
focus on continuous 
improvement
PT-FI environmental monitoring team surveys mangrove 
growth in the tailings deposition area in Indonesia.
46  |  2019 Sustainability Report
PERFORMANCE 
The EMS at each of our operations are independently audited on an annual basis. During 2019, we  
also conducted internal environmental audits at nine operations, and our facilities were inspected by 
governmental regulatory agencies on approximately 210 routine occasions. Since 1996, an independent 
environmental audit has been conducted at PT-FI every three years, and the next audit is scheduled for 
completion in 2020, subject to global health conditions around the COVID-19 pandemic. An executive 
summary and responses to the most recent 2017 audit recommendations are posted on our website.  
All operations have corrective and preventive action programs associated with the overarching EMS as  
well as audit and inspection findings. 
For 2019, Freeport-McMoRan had two global environmental targets: (1) incur zero environmental penalties 
over $100,000 on an individual basis, and (2) incur zero significant environmental events as defined in our 
Risk Register process. We met both objectives in 2019. 
Fines paid in 2019 included two Notices of Violation (NOV) at Sierrita for dust events related to a tailings 
impoundment in 2018 ($30,000) and one at Cerro Verde in 2007 ($94,682). In addition, we funded a  
$200,000 supplemental environmental project in 2019  associated with the Sierrita dust events. 
Late in 2019, we had two new dust-related NOVs at Sierrita. Typically, when our operations receive a NOV 
from a regulatory agency, the citations involve brief and minor exceedances of permit conditions or other 
record-keeping violations, which have zero or minimal environmental impact. 
We are committed to constantly improving our environmental performance across all of our operations.  
For example, in order to address the ongoing dust occurrences at Sierrita, which has been a challenge for 
the company, we have implemented additional control measures including the formation of a new tailings 
dust control management team, development of a wireless GPS system to track dust suppressant 
applications, and establishment of daily satellite imagery of the tailings facility.
environment
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE INDICATORS
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
Reportable spills or releases of hazardous 
or toxic chemical1
15
33
25
17
332
NOVs related to permit exceedances, spills, 
releases or other compliance matters 
2
5
5
13
6
# of Significant Environmental Events  
(as defined by the Risk Register)
–
–
–
1
–
Cumulative Environmental Penalties
$43,000
–
$317,0003
–
$124,6824
1 	 Reportable spills excludes spills at PT-FI associated with pipeline sabotage. Due to increased security efforts, the number of sabotage-related spills reported 
at PT-FI decreased from 68 in 2018 to 16 in 2019.
2 	 2019 reportable spills included 14 releases of 75 kg (or less) of NH3 or SO2 at our Rotterdam molybdenum plant associated with malfunctions of the catalytic oxidizer.
3 	 2017 penalties paid were from NOVs at Cerro Verde in 2006 and 2008.
4 	 2019 penalties paid were from NOVs at Sierrita for dust events in 2018 ($30,000) and a NOV at Cerro Verde in 2007 ($94,682). In addition, we agreed to fund  
a $200,000 Supplemental Environmental Project associated with the Sierrita dust events. The Cerro Verde fine was paid in 2019 from a regulatory inspection 
conducted in 2007 due to extended legal appeal process.
Note: As a result of methodology changes or corrections, prior year data may be updated.
47
Climate
WHY IT MATTERS?
Freeport-McMoRan recognizes that climate change poses 
considerable near and long-term challenges for society and  
to our own financial and operational performance. Mining is 
energy-intensive and generates significant greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions that contribute to climate change. However, 
copper plays an essential role in the technologies necessary to 
develop and deliver clean energy, helping to transition the world 
to a low-carbon economy. We believe we have the opportunity  
to supply the world with responsibly produced copper, which 
includes operating in a way that manages and mitigates our GHG 
emissions and other climate-related risks.  
OUR APPROACH
Reducing emissions and improving our energy efficiency provides 
us with cost savings and environmental benefits within and 
beyond our operating boundaries. Particularly in the Americas,  
we have spent the last three decades focused on developing and 
implementing innovations across our mines and processes which 
have resulted in lower costs and enhanced energy efficiency.  
As part of our ICMM membership, we are committed to 
implementing the ICMM Climate Change Position Statement 
requirements as well as the Performance Expectations at a site 
and corporate level as included in the Mining With Principals 
framework. These obligations include: implementing 
governance, engagement and disclosure processes, advancing 
site-level adaptation and mitigation solutions, engaging with 
host communities as well as others in value chain, monitoring 
and disclosing our Scope 1 and 2 emissions, and working 
towards more aligned reporting of Scope 3 emissions. We are 
also implementing the requirements of the Copper Mark, which 
include establishing and reporting on site-level GHG and energy 
metrics. Finally, we are committed to aligning our climate 
strategy and related disclosures with the recommendations of 
the Task Force on Climate Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 
in the coming years. Concurrent with this sustainability report, 
we published our first stand-alone Climate Change report, based 
on these commitments. We have provided a brief summary of 
our climate change efforts in the following pages, and we 
encourage you to read the full report available on our website  
for more detail on our approach, historical performance, and 
strategy going forward. 
In 2019, Cerro Verde continued to provide technical assistance to 
support agricultural productivity and cattle ranches in the region, 
completing more than 10,000 visits with 885 producers.
48  |  2019 Sustainability Report
PERFORMANCE
As shown below, our global annual absolute CO2 equivalent emissions range between 8-10 
million metric tons per year, with approximately 70% from our FMC operations (including 
FMC Mining and FMC Downstream Processing) and 30% from PT-FI in Indonesia. Our FMC 
emissions are dominated by Scope 2 emissions as a result of purchased electricity while 
PT-FI's are dominated by Scope 1 emissions, resulting from coal use to generate reliable 
electricity for our remote operations in the eastern Indonesian province of Papua. 
AMERICAS
In 2019, we undertook a significant effort to analyze our GHG emissions in the Americas  
back to 2012. This work has enabled us to identify levers for change in the future and has 
reaffirmed our approach to asset optimization and processing innovation. Over the last 
decade, we have developed and implemented industry leading technologies for leaching of 
oxide ores, implemented step change crushing technologies that reduce energy demand by 
over 30% per metric ton of milled material and developed a new, highly efficient process for 
leaching sulfide concentrates that replaces traditional smelting and refining. 
We also have implemented an asset management strategy where we rebuild engines, frames 
and truck beds, resulting in the reuse of approximately 70% of a typical haul truck. This net 
result is over $1 billion in capital avoidance, and an estimated GHG emissions avoidance of 
325 tons of CO2 equivalent per truck, or more than 150,000 metric tons in the last decade.
In addition, the gradual decarbonization of country-level energy grids, combined with specific 
power purchase contract terms for renewables, allows us to maintain our focus on lowering 
operating costs while reducing the amount of GHGs emitted per metric ton of product.
environment
ANNUAL GHG EMISSIONS (METRIC TONS)
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
fmc mining1
Scope 1
 2,040,012 
 1,772,308 
 1,763,407 
 2,049,720 
 2,241,039 
Scope 22
 4,007,548 
 3,834,801 
 3,349,819 
 2,774,994 
 2,705,132 
Total 
 6,047,560 
 5,607,109 
 5,113,226 
 4,824,714 
 4,946,171 
fmc downstream processing3
Scope 1
 275,451 
 240,647 
 239,102 
 254,961 
 264,083 
Scope 22
 428,875 
 366,260 
 341,298 
 389,827 
 337,937 
Total
 704,326 
 606,907 
 580,400 
 644,788 
 602,020 
PT-FI
Scope 1
 3,384,208 
 3,082,180 
 2,528,388 
 2,935,480 
 2,464,261 
Scope 2
–
–
–
–
–
Total
 3,384,208 
 3,082,180 
 2,528,388 
 2,935,480 
 2,464,261 
FCX Total
 10,136,094 
 9,296,196 
 8,222,014 
 8,404,982 
 8,012,451 
1	 FMC Mining includes Bagdad, Cerro Verde, Chino, Climax, El Abra, Henderson, Morenci, Safford, Sierrita and Tyrone.
2	 2015-2017 Scope 2 emissions calculated using a location-based method; 2018-2019 Scope 2 emissions calculated using  
a market-based method.
3	 FMC Downstream Processing includes Atlantic Copper Smelter and Refinery, Bayway Rod and Wire, Ft. Madison Moly 
Special Products, Kokkola Cobalt Refinery, Miami Smelter and Rod, Norwich Rod, Rotterdam, Stowmarket and El Paso 
Refinery and Rod.
2019 
EMISSIONS (%)
FMC Mining	
62%
PT-FI	
31%
FMC Processing	
7%
2019 
PURCHASED POWER 
BY SOURCE
Natural Gas	
35%
Hydro	
32%
Coal, Other Fossil	 18%
Nuclear	
9%
Solar, Wind, 
Geothermal	
5%
Other	
1%
465 
rebuilt 
haul trucks
70% 
reused 
components 
150,000 &  $1 Billion
metric tons 
GHGs avoided
new capital 
avoided
Between 2012-2016, ore grades at our operations 
decreased, requiring more ore to be both moved and 
processed to produce the same amount of copper.  
This resulted in emissions climbing during the period. 
However, we took the following actions which countered 
our increasing emissions trend: 
•	
2014-2016: We installed new highly efficient milling 
technology at Morenci and at Cerro Verde, which 
enabled significant improvements in absolute 
emissions intensity as well as significant production 
gains at both sites. 
•	
2014-2019: We saw a significant decrease in the 
carbon intensity of our electricity consumption due 
to Peru and Arizona grid decarbonization trends. 
•	
2018: Advances in information allowed us to switch 
to a market-based approach for a significant 
portion of our delivered electricity, enabling us to 
reflect actual emissions versus estimates 
calculated using the standard published grid 
factors provided by regulators.
The graphic to the right illustrates both our absolute  
and intensity performance for our copper operations 
(excluding downstream of refining) and includes 
projections of what our performance would have been 
(“Business as Usual”) in the absence of the above 
actions. On an absolute basis, our total GHG emissions 
for this part of the business remain stable at 4.8 million 
metric tons, which is 30% lower than our Business As 
Usual projections. On an intensity basis, Americas' 
performance has improved significantly with carbon 
intensity per metric ton of copper produced decreasing 
by 18% versus 2012 levels and 30% lower than Business 
as Usual. 
Looking forward, we expect to achieve similar success 
as we did in the last decade. We have set a corporate 
target to achieve an additional 15% reduction in carbon 
emissions per metric ton of copper produced in the 
Americas by 2030, using a 2018 baseline. Over the  
next several years, the company will be focused on 
recovery from COVID-19 impacts by maintaining safe 
and financially viable operations as well as supporting 
the economic recovery of the communities where we 
operate. As business conditions allow, we will look  
for opportunities to invest in innovative mining and 
processing technologies as a means of working towards 
our 2030 emissions reduction goal, as well as to further 
develop our climate change strategy.
49
On an intensity basis, our 2019  
GHG emissions in the Americas are  
30% lower than projected  
due to successful innovations 
in mining, processing and reporting
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 
AMERICAS COPPER GHG REDUCTION PERFORMANCE
7,000
6,000
5,000
4,000
3,000
2,000
1,000
0
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
TOTAL METRIC TONS CO2E (THOUSANDS)
METRIC TONS CO2E/METRIC TON COPPER
Business as Usual - Absolute
Actual - Absolute
Business as Usual - Production Intensity
Actual - Production Intensity
New 2030 Target
CO2e = carbon dioxide equivalent.
A 15MW solar facility located at our Badgad operations.
50  |  2019 Sustainability Report
INDONESIA
PT-FI accounts for approximately 30% of total FCX emissions, and approximately  
50% of the company’s total direct, Scope 1, emissions. This is primarily related to its 
self-generation of coal-fired electricity for reliable power due to its extremely remote 
location. In 2017, we saw a significant reduction in emissions due to an export ban from 
Indonesia, which limited the amount of concentrate we were permitted to ship and 
required us to reduce production at site. In 2019, another significant reduction was 
experienced as a result of ramping down our open-pit operation during the transition  
to underground operations. Overall, while PT-FI’s emissions have reduced over 27% 
since 2015, they are likely to increase somewhat in 2020-2021 as our transition to 
underground mining is completed and underground production levels normalize. 
Electricity for our remote PT-FI operations in the eastern Indonesian province of Papua 
remains reliant on coal-fired power for electricity and alternative sources of energy are 
not currently reasonably available. PT-FI invests In projects to improve energy efficiency 
and engages on an ongoing basis to identify alternative sources of energy but the 
physical and economic challenges are significant. The Paniai Regency of Papua, which 
borders the Mimika Regency where PT-FI is located, holds the potential for large-scale 
hydropower projects and a significant natural gas resource is located in West Papua. 
Access to these resources or the development of renewable energy sources would 
enable PT-FI to shift to lower carbon electricity over the longer term.
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY SOLUTIONS IN COMMUNITIES
In 2019, to enhance Indonesian family incomes and help to raise them above the 
poverty line in support of achieving the SDGs, PT-FI, Freeport-McMoRan and the 
Arizona State University’s School of Sustainability implemented two sustainable 
energy activities in Papua, Indonesia.
The objectives of the first project were to reduce fish storage costs and improve 
quality by producing ice via a solar panel system. Sustainability of the activity 
relies on the participation of a local Catholic-affiliated cooperative, Maria 
Bintang Laut (MBL), that operates the system.
The Amungme and other indigenous groups grow, harvest, process and sell 
cacao with the assistance of local cooperatives to stimulate economic growth 
and reduce dependence on PT-FI. Cacao farmers were losing a sizable portion  
of their harvest during the drying stages because Papua is very humid and wet  
with limited amounts of direct sunlight. For the second project, the partners 
developed a simple, effective cacao greenhouse dryer constructed from local 
materials. This reduced losses and provided a simple sustainable solution 
requiring no electricity.
environment
Water Stewardship
WHY IT MATTERS?
Access to safe water is a fundamental human right. Water is essential to the well-
being of our communities and the environment and is necessary for our mines, 
smelters, processing facilities and reclamation projects. Many of our operations  
are located in arid environments where competition for water supply is significant. 
Although from time to time the PT-FI Highlands in Indonesia is also susceptible to lack 
of rainfall, management of excess water supply is the primary challenge. The unique 
circumstances at each of our operations reinforce the critical importance of 
managing the impacts of our activities on water availability and quality, optimizing  
our water utilization, and respecting the rights of others. 
OUR APPROACH
Freeport-McMoRan is dedicated to responsibly managing water resources. We 
recognize the importance of working collaboratively with stakeholders in order to 
secure access to water in a socially and environmentally responsible manner, and we 
are dedicated to continuous improvement of our water stewardship programs. 
Policies & Programs
While implementation varies depending on the site-specific circumstances of each 
operation, Freeport-McMoRan maintains an extensive global water management 
program designed to balance the needs of our operations with the needs of our 
communities and the sustainability of the environment and ecosystem. The goals  
are the following:
1.	 Improve water use efficiency in our processes 
2.	 Minimize use of fresh water at our operations
3.	 Reduce our water footprint by transitioning to renewable or recycled  
water sources
4.	 Continually review water supplies and its impact on the surrounding  
community, environment and ecosystem, including possible impacts  
from climate change and other regulatory and legal changes
We are implementing the ICMM Water Position Statement, which outlines our 
commitment to responsible water use and public reporting. During 2020, we also  
plan to publish our first corporate water report to enhance our transparency and 
accountability of our water management. 
51
Water is essential to the well-being 
of our communities and the 
environment and is necessary for 
our mines, smelters, processing 
facilities and reclamation projects
Our Climax operations in Colorado 
reclaimed this area of the Arkansas 
river by restoring the river channel 
and revegetating the area from 
historical mining structures, and 
today, we continue vegetation 
monitoring to help inform future 
reclamation projects.
Water Use Efficiency 
In order to efficiently manage water resources, we must 
understand water availability requirements. We have developed 
ground water and hydrologic (predictive) models to understand 
water availability at each of our sites. We also apply operational-
based models to understand our utilization and inventory 
management requirements. 
With this information we are able to identify opportunities to 
minimize water loss (such as evaporation or seepage), recycle  
and reuse water, and maintain compliance with water quality 
standards. Taken together, these ongoing studies inform our 
efforts to reduce our overall water utilization – including 
requirements for fresh water – where operational efficiencies 
and production requirements permit. 
In addition to optimizing water use at our mining facilities,  
our water management practices are aligned with strategic 
objectives designed to maintain the safe operation and 
structural stability of our tailings storage facilities. As of 2019, 
our successful efforts in recycling water reduced our reliance 
on new freshwater needs to 18% of our total water demands. 
Water Footprint
To achieve a reduced water footprint at our operations, we 
continuously analyze the sources of our water and actively 
seek renewable and recycled sources. In 2019, we have made 
progress in achieving this management objective and actively 
are engaging with the ICMM Water Working Group and member 
companies to develop industry reporting metrics that enable us 
to communicate transparent and consistent water information  
to stakeholders. We also serve as a leading member of an 
international coalition conducting studies to bring desalinated 
water to the Southwest United States and are working with 
another international coalition to capture raw sewage and 
convert it into usable water. In 2019, the company was able to 
offset 63% of its fresh water needs in Arizona through 
recharging Colorado River water in areas of the state where 
water is needed. 
Water Quality Management 
Monitoring water quality is an important component of our 
water management program, necessary to measure our 
impacts on surface and groundwater resources. We collect 
thousands of water samples each year across all of our 
operations. The samples are analyzed for various chemical and 
physical parameters either at our own certified laboratories or 
at independent laboratories. The results of the analysis are 
compared to historical data trends and applicable regulatory 
standards determine how we are impacting overall water quality. 
The results help us prioritize our efforts to protect water 
resources. During 2019, we collected and analyzed more than 
19,000 water quality samples at our operations in the Americas.
Stormwater Management
Preventing on-site and off-site impacts to water resources  
also is core to our water management program. Stormwater  
is actively captured, managed and contained on-site for 
operational use through various diversions, containment 
structures and dams. We are reviewing the potential for more 
frequent and intense precipitation events that could result  
in impacts to on-site and off-site water resources. This 
information will help us evaluate our capacity to route on-site 
water to areas with adequate storage capacity.
Each of our active mining and metals processing facilities 
evaluate climate-related risks and opportunities through the 
Risk Register process. This includes reviewing the potential for 
physical climate risks, including impacts on water supplies and 
quality, in order to reinforce the resiliency of revenue generating 
operations and support community well-being. In 2019, we had 
one significant weather event, which occurred at our El Abra 
operations in Chile in February when record rainfall in the 
nearby Andes Mountains caused flooding throughout the 
normally arid region. The floods resulted in a 21-day closure of 
our mine and significant damage to the communities throughout 
the Alto El Loa region. Following the event, the El Abra relief 
team worked on proactive measures and lessons learned, 
including construction of a second access road to the mine 
area,  additional access to the conveyor for maintenance and 
work with the communities to rebuild damaged infrastructure. 
environment
52  |  2019 Sustainability Report
Cerro Verde, in partnership with the regional government and communities, provides 
clean drinking water for hundreds of thousands of people in Arequipa, Peru.
PERFORMANCE
Our objective is to maintain high rates of recycled or reused water in our total 
water utilization, and our performance has exceeded 80% in recent years. In 
2019, our operations utilized 1,711 million cubic meters of water, including new 
water withdrawals of 303 million cubic meters. 82% of our total utilized water 
was from recycled or reused sources. By accounting for discharge quantities 
of 96 million cubic meters, our water use efficiency was 87% for 2019.
We utilized
4x more 
recycled water 
than new water 
in 2019 
WATER USAGE
Million cubic meters (m3)
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
Total New Water Withdrawn1
271
303
275
311
303
Total Water Recycled
1,164
1,399
1,285
1,378
1,409
Total Utilized Water  
(Withdrawn + Recycled)
1,435
1,702
1,560
1,689
1,711
% Recycled of Total  
Water Utilized
81%
82%
82%
82%
82%
Total Water Discharge2
–
–
–
106
96
Water Use Efficiency2
–
–
–
87%
87%
1	 Withdrawals or Fresh Water = surface water + groundwater + stormwater + sea water + third-party supply  
(such as municipal wastewater effluent).
2	 We started reporting discharge quantities and water use efficiency in 2018.
Cerro Verde is the world’s largest copper 
concentrating facility located in the arid Arequipa 
region in Southern Peru. To support water 
requirements for mining and processing and for  
our local communities, Cerro Verde has made 
significant investments in local water infrastructure: 
1.	 Co-financed the construction of dams to 
increase water storage capacity from the 
Chili River
2.	 Built a water treatment system for potable 
drinking water
3.	 Supported improved lines for potable 
drinking water throughout Arequipa
4.	 Built the Waste Water Treatment Plant 
(WWTP) to treat wastewater
The construction of the WWTP treatment and 
collection facility has improved the water quality 
in the Chili River, benefitting more than 1 million 
people in Arequipa. Today, 50% of Cerro Verde’s 
water utilization is from the WWTP and 50% is 
sourced from the Chili River.
CERRO VERDE WATER INFRASTRUCTURE 
DAMS
POTABLE 
WATER 
TREATMENT 
PLANT
POTABLE 
WATER 
DISTRIBUTION 
LINES
WASTE WATER 
TREATMENT 
PLANT (WWTP)
TOTAL & NEW WATER WITHDRAWN (M3)
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
0
500
1000
1500
2000
Total Water Use (New + Recycled)
New Water Withdrawn
% Recycled
81%
82%
82%
82%
82%
53
Tailings Management
WHY IT MATTERS?
The health and safety of our people, communities and the 
environment is our top priority and fundamental to Freeport-
McMoRan’s extensive tailings management programs. Tailings are 
the by-products of processing and extracting metals from ore. 
Typically, our tailings comprise a slurry of finely ground natural 
rock particles, which are transported from processing facilities to 
management and storage facilities. We recognize that a failure of 
tailings facilities and other impoundments at any of our mining 
operations could cause severe – and in some cases catastrophic 
– property and environmental damage and loss of life. 
OUR APPROACH 
Freeport-McMoRan has comprehensive measures in place  
to ensure that the facilities are designed, built, operated and 
monitored to minimize risk to employees, neighboring 
communities and the environment. We have a strong commitment 
from our Board and executive management to provide the 
necessary resources to our operations to maintain the safety of 
our facilities and the integrity of tailings management systems and 
to continuously improve these systems.
In addition to applicable regulations, we implement the ICMM 
Position Statement on Preventing Catastrophic Failure of Tailing 
Storage Facilities as an integral component of our tailings 
management systems and various national and international 
guidelines. We continue to engage in industry initiatives on 
tailings management, including initiatives led by ICMM, and we 
support the development of a safety-focused global tailings 
standard that can be widely adopted to improve performance of 
the broader industry and minimize risks of catastrophic failures 
to as low as reasonably practicable. 
Safe, robust and reliably constructible designs are paramount. 
For new tailings projects, we work with our Engineers of Record 
(EoRs) and seek input from our Tailings Review Boards (TRBs) on 
siting studies which consider various technologies based on 
rigorous Multiple Accounts Analysis (MAA) for site context and 
selected evaluation criteria. Our MAA approach provides 
transparent rationale for identifying the preferred Tailings Storage 
Facility (TSF) alternatives by using a broad internal stakeholder 
group to consider evaluation criteria, scoring and weights. This 
stakeholder group ensures decisions made at our operations 
reflect our corporate values and include environmental, technical, 
social and economic aspects. Once we understand preferred 
options, conceptual and design phases proceed with our EoR and 
we engage external stakeholders on formal options studies, as 
appropriate. We engage our TRBs throughout the selection and 
design process and typically continue with the same EoR and TRB 
members into construction and operations (only making 
personnel changes in the best interest of the facility). 
AMERICAS 
Freeport-McMoRan affiliates in the Americas currently  
operate 18 active TSFs and manage 58 inactive or  
reclaimed TSFs. 
environment
Facilities by  
design & Status
Upstream
Centerline
Downstream
Active
13
5
–
Inactive or Closed
52
5
1
2019 Tailings Review Board quadrennial review of Morenci tailings facility in Arizona.
54  |  2019 Sustainability Report
55
Policies & Programs
Our objective is to have zero catastrophic structural failures at any of our TSFs. Our 
programs take into account the significant consequences that would result from a 
potential failure, and we apply substantial financial and technical resources, both 
internal and external, to materially reduce the likelihood of failures. 
Our Tailings Management and Stewardship Program launched in 2004 has evolved 
significantly over the last 15 years. Today, we employ substantial engineering expertise, 
technological monitoring, and local and corporate management oversight to validate 
these facilities are designed, built, operated and monitored to minimize risk to employees, 
neighboring communities and the environment. These safeguards generally fall within 
four categories: (1) engineering and design; (2) rigorous adherence to construction and 
operational parameters through monitoring and use of technology; (3) multi-tiered 
oversight; and (4) adherence to practices grounded in continuous improvement and 
learning from past experiences, including industry failures and best-practices. The 
safeguards are effectively implemented through the promotion of open and ongoing 
communication throughout the organization and a bias for action at all levels.
Governance 
Freeport-McMoRan maintains multi-tiered oversight of the TSFs at its operational sites: 
•	
Corporate Senior Leadership – Participates in key decisions and provides 
resources to site management.
•	
Corporate Tailings and Water Team – Technical resource provides guidance  
and direction to site tailings team along with development and review of 
program initiatives. 
•	
Site Tailings Management, Engineers and Operations – Implements the 
program and regularly monitors, identifies and addresses potential risks.
•	
Engineer of Record (EoR) – External resource provides expert design, technical 
support, inspection, review and guidance to achieve design intent. 
•	
Tailings Stewardship Team (TST) – Third-party engineer and internal expert 
team inspects all tailings facilities, reviews documents and monitoring data, 
identifies potential deficiencies, and recommends corrective actions.
•	
Technical Review Boards (TRB) – Third-party internationally known expert 
panels provide independent opinions and guidance on the physical integrity, 
safety and performance of our TSFs and management systems and has direct 
access to Senior Corporate Leadership.
For closed and inactive sites, we have a similar oversight structure that reports 
through the Vice President of Environmental Services and Sustainable Development 
and includes the same site-level engineers, EoRs, TSTs and TRB structures.
Tailings Stewardship & 
Management is an integral 
component in our safe 
production culture
Tailings management & stewardship
MULTI-TIERED 
OVERSIGHT
MONITORING & TECHNOLOGY
LEARNING FROM 
PAST EXPERIENCES
COMMUNICATION & ACTION
ENGINEERING & DESIGN
56  |  2019 Sustainability Report
environment
Performance 
Our EoRs and site engineers inspected our TSFs multiple times throughout the year. Our TST visited all active 
sites and seven inactive sites, each with multiple TSFs, in 2019. Our TRBs visited two sites for quadrennial 
reviews and met for interim review updates for nine sites (each with multiple TSFs), as well as for five specific 
TSF projects during 2019. The review and inspection processes produce recommended actions, which we 
track until implemented. Examples include actions we began in 2018 and continued in 2019 to construct 
buttresses out of an abundance of caution. We completed a buttress at Sierrita that is sized for TSF raising 
over the next ten years. We initiated construction of a buttress at Henderson and will continue to raise it in a 
proactive phased approach in coming years.
For more information on our extensive Tailings Stewardship Program, including 2019 key enhancements  
and activities, please refer to our website.
INDONESIA 
PT-FI operates a controlled riverine tailings management system implemented based on methods approved 
and permitted by the Government of Indonesia. PT-FI tailings are the finely ground natural rock particles that 
remain after the economically valuable minerals have been removed from the ore. The tailings are transported 
from the concentrating facility along with water and a very small quantity of concentrating reagents. These 
reagents have been demonstrated to dissipate within a short distance of the concentrating facility. 
Policies & Programs
The PT-FI tailings management system uses an unnavigable river to transport the tailings and natural 
sediments from the concentrator in the Highlands to a large engineered and managed deposition area in 
the Lowlands, referred to as the ModADA. The river is not used for potable water, agriculture, fishing or 
other domestic or commercial uses. Levees have been constructed on both the East and West sides of the 
ModADA to laterally contain the footprint of the tailings and natural sediment within the designated area. 
Quantities of finer tailings and other sediments deposit in the estuary and the sea to the South. 
This system design was selected after a careful and comprehensive analysis of more than 12 alternatives 
in partnership with the Government of Indonesia. After evaluating the topographical, seismic and 
geotechnical, geological, climatological and environmental conditions of the project area, it was clear  
that a conventional style tailings dam in the Highlands would not have been safe, stable or effective. 
Independent, environmental management expert audits have reaffirmed that this management system is 
the best and safest site-specific management alternative. This system has been in service for more than 
20 years and has performed safely with no human health related issues.
Governance 
In addition to regular internal and external audits and assessments, PT-FI tailings management oversight 
includes the following: 
•	
FCX Corporate Senior Leadership – Participates in key decisions and provides resources to site 
management.
•	
FCX Corporate Tailings and Water Team – Technical resource provides technical support and  
assists with guidance and direction for site tailings team and associated program initiatives. 
•	
Site Tailings Management, Engineers and Operations – Implements the program and regularly 
monitors, identifies and addresses potential risks associated with ModADA and coastal zone areas.
•	
External Design Engineer – External resource provides design, ongoing engineering support, 
periodic inspections, and levee construction quality review. 
•	
ModADA Management Board (MMB) – Multi-disciplinary expert panel that provides oversight and 
recommendations to PT-FI leadership and engineering teams on priority activities. They meet onsite 
to assess system performance and risks associated with the ModADA and coastal zone area and 
focus on the structural integrity of the levees and the geochemical stability of the deposition. They 
track progress on detailed recommendations as well associated stakeholder engagement.
57
Performance  
PT-FI’s environmental impacts are well-documented, monitored and managed and 
have been subject to the Government of Indonesia’s regulatory oversight, including 
the approval of the environmental impact analysis (AMDAL) for PT-FI operations and 
the approval of annual work plans. Impacts of the system, including increases in 
sedimentation, were predicted in numerous studies and are consistent with the 
design and operation. Monitoring programs have established, except for elevation 
changes, the environmental impacts of the tailings deposition are reversible at the 
end of the mine’s life.
Large-scale demonstration reclamation projects show that several land use options 
are possible after final closure of the deposition area. When mining is completed, 
this area can be reclaimed with natural vegetation or used for agriculture, forestry, 
grazing of livestock and aquaculture among other options, depending on 
stakeholder ambitions.
PT-FI and Indonesia’s Ministry of Environment and Forestry recently established a 
new framework known as the “Tailings Roadmap” to drive continuous improvement 
in environmental practices in PT-FI’s operations. Issued in December 2018 and 
amended in January 2019, KepMen 594 is the regulatory action known as the 
Tailings Roadmap. The basic elements of this framework include three studies to 
increase tailings retention within the Lowlands, to protect the coastal ecosystem 
and to evaluate large-scale beneficial uses of tailings within Indonesia. The 
approved Terms of Reference for these studies were signed in the fall of 2019.  
The scalability and economic viability of tailings reuse, whether for transportation 
infrastructure (roads and bridges) or building infrastructure (formed products  
such as prefabricated building walls), is currently being evaluated. The current 
aspirational target date for completion of the studies is September 2020, although 
the impacts of COVID-19 on that date are uncertain.
For more information on our 
controlled riverine tailings 
management system, 
extensive biodiversity and 
reclamation work at PT-FI, 
please refer to our website.
The ModADA 
Management Board is 
an expert panel that 
meets on-site to  
assess tailings system 
performance and to 
provide oversight and 
recommendations to 
PT-FI leadership and 
engineering teams 
ModADA Management Board members inspect the performance 
of the levee in a tailings deposition area in Indonesia.
58  |  2019 Sustainability Report
Biodiversity
WHY IT MATTERS?
Biodiversity sustains and stabilizes healthy ecosystems – which provides people 
with valuable resources, like food and water, necessary to ensure quality of life. 
Climate change, including global warming and its impact on water supplies, together 
with human activity is disrupting biodiversity and contributing to its loss. Freeport-
McMoRan is committed to proactively managing the impacts of our mining 
operations on the environment including biodiversity. Proactive management is 
critical to maintaining social acceptance from our local communities and expected 
by our global stakeholders. 
OUR APPROACH 
Freeport-McMoRan seeks to avoid and minimize the adverse impacts of our 
operations on biodiversity and ecosystem services while promoting opportunities  
to conserve and enhance resources in the areas where we operate. 
In 2019, we continued our efforts to begin implementation of the mitigation hierarchy – 
a framework that emphasizes best practices for managing biodiversity and 
ecosystem services through the avoidance, minimization and restoration of impacts. 
We manage risks and potential impacts with the long-term ambition of ‘no net loss’ for 
new mines and major expansion projects at existing mines. In 2019, we developed 
guidance for consistent and rigorous application of the mitigation hierarchy across  
all operations. 
OFFSET
RESTORE / REHABILITATE
MINIMIZE
AVOID
no net loss
MITIGATION HIERARCHY
environment
Policies & Programs
In addition to our Environmental Policy, which states our commitment to contribute to 
the conservation of biodiversity, and our Environmental Management Systems – our 
framework for understanding the potential impacts of our operations on biodiversity 
– we also implement the following:  
•	
ICMM Position Statement on Mining and Protected Areas – We have 
addressed the commitments in our operational practices, including committing 
to no mining nor exploring in World Heritage Sites.
•	
Wildlife Habitat Council’s Conservation Certification (WHC) – We participate 
in the program, which formally recognizes meaningful biodiversity conservation, 
environmental education and community outreach programs. Eighteen of our 
operating sites and facilities currently are certified through WHC, 15 of which are 
recognized with gold-tier certifications. 
Stakeholder Engagement 
Our conservation initiatives aim to produce benefits for both biodiversity and  
people, build trust, and support our social license to operate. We seek to engage our 
employees, local communities and other interested stakeholders in this work. We 
foster diverse partnerships with global stakeholders across private and public sectors 
and civil society to achieve greater accountability and promote the long-term efficacy 
for our biodiversity projects. These collaborations often serve as the basis for our 
community outreach and STEM education opportunities for learners of all ages. For 
example, in 2019, employees across our North American sites engaged approximately 
1,500 students and community members through pollinator-focused education and 
outreach activities, including Earth Day celebrations, pollinator education workshops 
and hands-on planting events in the field. A key internal stakeholder engagement 
effort is our annual biodiversity photo contest. Each year, employees submit photos 
from across the business with winning photos featured in WHC's annual calendar, 
used to showcase efforts by member companies to enhance and preserve wildlife. 
The 2019 winning photos are available to view on our website.
We aim to foster 
diverse partnerships 
with global 
stakeholders to 
achieve greater 
accountability  
and promote the  
long-term efficacy  
of our biodiversity 
programs
59
Guanaco endangered species conservation program at Cerro Verde, Peru.
60  |  2019 Sustainability Report
environment
AMERICAS
Our commitment to biodiversity conservation is further evidenced by our Biodiversity 
Action Plans that aim to address risks while promoting conservation opportunities. The 
plans are based on an adaptive management approach that allows us to effectively 
address new biodiversity risks resulting from operational and ecological changes at the 
sites. All of our sites in North America have implemented Wildlife Protection Plans and 
several operations also are implementing risk-based Avian Protection Plans that focus 
specifically on minimizing potential risks to migratory birds. 
We conduct site-specific, multi-year biodiversity programs either voluntarily or due to 
regulatory obligations. These programs are designed to address the most significant 
biodiversity issues at each site, including the following: 
Site / Location
2019 Biodiversity Highlights
Tyrone, Miami &  Morenci 
New Mexico, Arizona
Continued implementation of management plans 
developed in consultation with the U.S. Fish and 
Wildlife Service to support conservation of federally 
listed species, including the spikedace and loach 
minnow fish and the southwestern willow flycatcher 
birds. In 2019, we conducted our annual surveys as 
part of our management plans (spring and fall for fish 
species and summer for bird species).
Chino 
New Mexico
Collaborated with Bat Conservation International, 
Borderlands Restoration and other NGOs to salvage 
over 600 agaves near the mine, which serve as primary 
food source for the bats. The agaves were replanted in 
community greenspaces across our Arizona and New 
Mexico sites. In May 2019, over 100 salvaged agaves 
were donated to our tribal partners for cultural uses.
Morenci 
Arizona
In June 2019, continued our efforts to trans-locate 
bighorn sheep from the mine to other habitats in the 
state in collaboration with Arizona Department of 
Game and Fish.
Sierrita  
Arizona
In January/February 2019, salvaged and relocated 
176 endangered Pima pineapple cactus from the mine 
site to a company-owned conservation easement.
Henderson 
Colorado
In June/July 2019, the Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
Department surveyed the boreal toad population on  
our property as part of our ongoing conservation 
partnership.
Cerro Verde 
Peru
Progressed conservation programs to protect 
endemic cacti and endangered species, including the 
guanaco and Peruvian long-snouted bat. Continued 
monitoring increased aquatic and avian species in the 
Chili River.
El Abra 
Chile
Advanced biodiversity management programs to 
support regionally endemic vegetation and wildlife in 
the Salar de Ascotán wetlands and biological corridors.
61
RESEARCH & MONITORING 
PT-FI conducts research and monitoring in area ecosystems ranging from approximately 
4,000 meters above sea level to coastal and marine areas. Routine flora and fauna monitoring 
is conducted through collaboration with consultants, research organizations and universities.
EDUCATION & BIODIVERSITY OUTREACH PROGRAMS  
Education and outreach is a major focus of PT-FI’s biodiversity efforts, including 
construction of wildlife sanctuaries and the creation of the Natural Succession Discovery 
Park on a former tailings disposal area to serve as an outdoor education classroom. PT-FI 
has established wildlife areas, partners with local schools for education outreach, and 
provides internships at an on-site nursery for high school and college students. In 2019, 
2,697 school children visited the Discovery Park and 58 volunteers supported PT-FI 
planting mangroves in the estuary. 
CONTINUED RE-VEGETATION & RESTORATION 
The Ajkwa and Waii Islands in the Ajkwa Estuary to accelerate mangrove colonization has 
resulted in approximately 300 hectares of newly formed land through 2019.
PROGRESSIVE RECLAMATION & RESTORATION   
The sub-alpine ecosystems at Grasberg have resulted in reclamation of 411 hectares of 
overburden stockpile areas with native plant species.
INDONESIA
PT-FI’s operations located in Papua, Indonesia, encompass multiple ecosystems and host 
one of the richest and most biodiverse regions in the world. Conserving and protecting 
Papua’s biodiversity and ecosystem is a priority for both PT-FI and Freeport-McMoRan. 
Through the site’s Biodiversity Action Plans, we aim to:
1.	 Recognize the important role biodiversity plays in sustainable development.
2.	 Establish a strong partnership with multiple stakeholder groups involved in conservation 
and natural resource management, including local governments and citizens.
3.	 Effectively manage local biodiversity for the region, including monitoring, 
restoration, reclamation and reforestation programs.
4.	 Provide biodiversity education, research and information opportunities.
Ongoing biodiversity inventories are conducted regularly to ensure we have the latest 
information to better understand mine-related impacts on biodiversity. Using that 
information, we can develop appropriate biodiversity conservation programs using 
principles of restoration ecology for rehabilitation and restoration of disturbed areas in  
the Grasberg minerals district. 
Flora and fauna from Papua often become the object of illegal trade. Countering illegal wildlife 
trade is a priority for Papua’s natural resource agencies and part of PT-FI’s commitment to 
biodiversity conservation. PT-FI cooperates with the Indonesia Animal Rescue Center,  
Papua Regional Police, Forest Protection & Nature Conservation, Forest Rangers, Forestry 
Department, Lorentz National Park Center, and Wasur National Park Center to repatriate 
protected animals to their habitats. To date, PT-FI has assisted in releasing back in their natural 
habitat more than 46,000 pig-nosed turtles, 139 Black-capped lories, 21 dusky pademelons, 
seven yellow-crested cockatoos and six double-wattled cassowary, including the release of a 
pair of cassowary in 2019 into Lorentz National Park that were confiscated from an animal 
smuggler. Selected initiatives of PT-FI's biodiversity management program include:  
Please refer to our 
website for more 
information on PT-FI’s 
expansive biodiversity-
related programs. 
Sediment sampling in the Ajkwa 
River estuary near the Grasberg 
minerals district, Indonesia.
environment
Mine Closure & Reclamation
WHY IT MATTERS?
Mining requires the development of infrastructure such as 
open-pit mines, roads and processing facilities that can alter  
the natural environment. Mining companies are responsible for 
managing these impacts, which include reclamation of the land 
for post-mining use. The purpose of reclamation is to return areas 
impacted by mining and processing activities to a healthy state 
with lands that support productive post-mining land use. 
Freeport-McMoRan understands that effectively reclaiming 
disturbed land and responsibly closing our mine sites is critical  
to maintaining the trust of our local communities, governments 
and other interested stakeholders. 
OUR APPROACH
Freeport-McMoRan’s reclamation and mine closure planning 
processes are integral to our site planning and ongoing 
operations. We engage local communities, governments and 
other interested stakeholders early and often on these issues, 
and we seek to minimize land disturbances whenever possible. 
At each of our operations, we have mine closure and reclamation 
plans with site-specific environmental measures designed  
to minimize long-term impacts, promote eco-system  
re-establishment and protect the watersheds where we operate. 
To support future anticipated closure and reclamation costs, 
each operating mine site has asset retirement obligations  
which are estimated and accounted for in accordance with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission's  requirements and 
subject to review by an independent accounting firm. 
Due to the geological nature of the deposits and large resource 
base, most of our mining operations are long-lived, so 
implementation of closure plans may not occur for years or 
decades in the future. 
Our reclamation programs incorporate multiple aspects 
associated with environmental management and community 
well-being, such as water and air quality, erosion, wildlife and 
grazing habitats, and revegetation programs – all elements 
working together to advance ecosystem reestablishment. 
Although our traditional post-mining land use has been focused 
on wildlife habitats, we are increasingly exploring opportunities 
for open space, wildlife habitat, grazing habitat, recreational 
and educational use, renewable energy sites, and new industrial 
uses of our lands post-closure. 
In 2019, we hosted our second annual Henderson Sustainable 
Development and Entrepreneurship Challenge in partnership with 
the Colorado School of Mines. Over 100 Mines students in 
attendance were asked to form teams and pitch concepts to the 
company for repurposing the mill’s 10,300 acres of land near 
Parshall for when the mines' resource is  eventually depleted. Last 
year, the challenge focused on the mine’s surface facilities on the 
east side of the Continental Divide near Empire, Colorado. All ideas 
for both challenges were required to show a socioeconomic 
benefit to the surrounding communities, as well as be economically 
sustainable, socially acceptable and provide a positive and lasting 
legacy in the state of Colorado. The most important outcome from 
the Henderson Challenge is for county leadership to understand 
that there are viable options for supporting long-term economic 
development once the mine ceases operation.
62  |  2019 Sustainability Report
In 2019, we hosted our second annual Henderson Sustainable Development and 
Entrepreneurship Challenge in partnership with the Colorado School of Mines to develop ideas 
for repurposing the mill’s 10,300 acres of land near Parshall in Grand county, Colorado.
Waste Management
WHY IT MATTERS?
In addition to mining and mineral processing wastes, such as 
tailings, waste rock, slags, sludges and other residue, our 
operations generate non-mining waste which requires proper 
end-of-life management. Responsible management and disposal 
of these materials is critical for complying with environmental 
regulations and to maintaining community and environmental 
health and social acceptance of our operations. 
OUR APPROACH
Freeport-McMoRan is committed to reducing our environmental 
impact, which includes the effective management of our  
mining and non-mining wastes alike. The volume of mining  
and processing wastes varies depending on site operating  
plans and is managed in designated, engineered stockpiles  
and impoundments. 
For non-mining waste, we continuously evaluate opportunities to 
reduce the quantity generated. We implement robust practices  
to identify, categorize, store and manage non-mining wastes, and 
we strive to increase recycling and reuse of non-mining waste 
materials in our operations whenever possible. We also evaluate 
our hazardous waste streams, and when possible, substitute 
materials with lower toxicity into our processes.
Policies & Programs
Freeport-McMoRan has a dedicated global waste management 
team composed of subject matter experts from across the 
company. The team is responsible for advancing our technical 
expertise and developing leadership skills through multi-site 
collaboration. Our experts provide guidance on applicable laws and 
regulations to support global consistency in our waste management 
programs and the company’s Environmental Policy. The program 
identifies best practices and opportunities for continuous 
improvement. We follow local and national regulations and seek to 
meet or exceed industry best practices for disposing responsibly. 
PERFORMANCE
Our operations generate relatively small quantities of non-mining 
waste relative to our mining and processing wastes. Our non-
mining wastes fall into two categories: (1) non-hazardous, such as 
tires, scrap metal, obsolete equipment, HDPE pipe, domestic waste 
and wood waste, and (2) hazardous, such as used oil, chemicals, 
solvents, batteries, reagent packaging and fluorescent lightbulbs. 
In 2019, we generated approximately 251,000 metric tons of 
non-mining wastes, of which 23% was hazardous and 77% was 
non-hazardous. When possible, our materials are evaluated for 
other end-of-life uses in  accordance with applicable regulations 
and are recycled back into our own operations or into the global 
value chain. 
63
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
THOUSAND METRIC TONS
25%
30%
36%
37%
38%
Non-Hazardous Waste
% Recycled
Hazardous Waste
2015
2016 
2017 
2018 
2019 
Non-Mining Waste Generated & Recycled
Over the last five years, we have 
decreased the percentage of 
hazardous waste material 
generated by more than 20% and 
increased our recycling rate of non-
mining wastes by more than 12%
Over the last nine years, Cerro Verde in Peru has repurposed wood and other 
materials from the mine to make new school furniture for children in the 
districts surrounding our operations. In 2019, we delivered 65 desks and 150 
chairs to schools and educational institutions. 
