 9
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
OUR
APPROACH 
FCX is a leading responsible copper producer — supplying 9% of the world’s 
mined copper. As global decarbonization accelerates, demand for copper is 
expected to increase. FCX is committed to meeting growing demand through 
our sustainability strategy — Accelerate the Future, Responsibly.
Our strategy is underpinned by the recognition that our products are key 
contributors to global progress, including the acceleration of decarbonization 
around the world. Accelerate the Future, Responsibly guides us to deliver 
on our company’s business strategy of being Foremost in Copper by 
reinforcing our dedication to continuously advance the responsible production 
of our products. It also informs our stakeholders of what we stand for and is a 
framework that guides our decisions. 
We seek not only to responsibly accelerate the future of copper and mining 
practices, but we also strive to enhance the future for all of our stakeholders, 
which is critical to delivering and maintaining shared value. We plan to 
continue to act on the critical social and environmental issues facing our 
business and our stakeholders with the aim of doing more good for our 
stakeholders and the planet — not just less harm. 
Accelerate the Future, Responsibly aligns with our core values and 
supports our company culture, helping to cultivate an ethical and engaged 
workforce capable of innovating the future of mining and leading our 
company and industry into a more sustainable and responsible era of mining. 
 10
OUR STRATEGY
Our sustainability strategy is designed to achieve enduring progress, and is comprised of four components: our beliefs, our sustainability pillars, our critical 
enablers and our values.
OUR BELIEFS 
The ideologies that shape our focus and drive action across our most important priorities: 
•	 Increased global demand for copper should be met responsibly. 
We can, and we must, manage our impacts and positively contribute 
within and beyond our operational boundaries as we work to meet the 
world’s needs for our products. 
•	 The challenges of tomorrow demand innovation. The future of 
mining and responsible production require ingenuity and evolution 
across the value chain. We embrace this fully. 
•	 Rising ESG expectations are an opportunity to create greater 
value. We take seriously our commitments to our shareholders and other 
stakeholders and acknowledge the critical link between our sustainability 
performance and the trust and goodwill we earn from others. Our ESG 
commitments challenge us to continually improve and become a better 
and more productive company. 
•	 Resilience and adaptability are essential characteristics and 
priorities for any organization striving to achieve enduring ESG 
progress. Meeting the world’s changing needs requires a collaborative 
culture, the capabilities to evolve, people empowered to innovate and 
challenge the status quo, and the financial strength necessary to chart 
new paths and weather any storm. Not only do we apply this internally, 
but we use the same lens in our work with external stakeholders, 
including communities and Indigenous Peoples. 
•	 Transparency and accountability are crucial to building and 
maintaining trust. Trust takes time. It also takes transparency, authenticity 
and a two-way dialogue. We are committed to openly engaging with and 
listening to our stakeholders. We are also committed to transparently 
sharing our progress and to being held accountable for our commitments.
OUR VALUES: SAFETY | RESPECT | INTEGRITY | EXCELLENCE | COMMITMENT
CRITICAL ENABLERS
RESPONSIBLE
 VALUE CHAINS
COLLABORATIVE 
PARTNERSHIPS
OPERATIONAL 
EXCELLENCE
Thriving 
Environments
Empowered People + 
Resilient Communities
Robust 
Governance
SUSTAINABILITY PILLARS
HEALTHY & 
ENGAGED 
WORKFORCE
 11
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
OUR SUSTAINABILITY PILLARS 
Our sustainability strategy also seeks to create greater clarity on the outcomes we are working to achieve 
across our three sustainability pillars: 
•	 Robust Governance: Good governance relies upon dedicated leadership that integrates ESG into 
everyday operations and business decisions through effective internal structures and processes. We 
strive to embed a holistic ESG approach into decision-making by leveraging our internal culture and 
regulatory and technical systems and expertise. 
•	 Empowered People & Resilient Communities: People are at the core of our business. We 
are committed to supporting the health, safety and well-being of our people, which includes our 
workforce, our host communities and Indigenous neighbors. We seek to do this in a manner that 
increases resiliency and empowers people to thrive sustainably in the long term. 
•	 Thriving Environments: Mining impacts the natural environment. We work to conduct our 
operations with minimal adverse impacts on the environment, and we support the protection of 
ecosystems through responsible environmental stewardship. This commitment is embedded in our 
management systems and our approach to continuous improvement. 
OUR CRITICAL ENABLERS
We seek to deliver our sustainability strategy through four critical enablers:
•	 Healthy, Engaged Workforce: Empower our people to deliver a 
sustainable and innovative mining future. We support our people to work 
safely, to acquire new skills, learn and embrace new technologies, and 
to provide opportunities for growth and development within an inclusive 
environment.
•	 Operational Excellence: Set the standard for responsible copper 
and molybdenum production. Continuous improvement enables us 
to drive the innovation needed to embrace new approaches, ideas 
and technologies that will help us exceed future operational and ESG 
expectations while consistently delivering stakeholder value. 
•	 Collaborative Partnerships: Earn and maintain trust with communities 
and stakeholders. We proactively and collaboratively engage our host 
communities, including Indigenous Peoples, to define and build a 
common vision for creating shared value. 
•	 Responsible Value Chains: Responsibly deliver our products to 
the global economy. We seek to embed sustainability, integrity and 
compliance across our value chain — both upstream and downstream — 
to ensure copper and molybdenum are produced and used responsibly.
Accelerate 
the Future, 
Responsibly
OUR VALUES
Our culture is the bedrock of FCX's sustainability strategy, aligning our 
core company values to our work. Our core values direct the decisions we 
make as a company and as individual employees. These values represent 
who we are and how we work — everyone, everywhere, every day. 
•	 Safety
We put safety first — for ourselves, our co-workers and our 
communities — by actively promoting safe practices and health and 
wellness. No job is so important and no schedule so urgent that time 
cannot be taken to plan and perform work in a safe manner. 
•	 Respect
We treat each other and our stakeholders with respect. We value the 
diversity, ideas, perspectives and experiences of our employees and 
our stakeholders. 
•	 Integrity
We are honest, transparent and responsible, and we do what we 
say we will do. 
•	 Excellence
We pursue excellence in our work by taking pride in what we do 
and always doing our best. We collaborate to create and implement 
innovative ideas and to develop solutions to issues and concerns. 
•	 Commitment
We are committed to contributing to the long-term sustainability 
of the environment and communities where we work. We hold 
ourselves accountable for our environmental and social performance.
 12
Sierrita operation, Arizona.
 13
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
AMBITIONS AND PERFORMANCE TARGETS
In alignment with our sustainability strategy and informed by our materiality assessment and ongoing stakeholder engagement, we have identified our key focus 
areas and established clear ambitions and performance targets for each area, which are outlined in the tables below. Read more about our 2022 performance in 
each of these critical areas in the following sections of this report.
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
ROBUST GOVERNANCE
FOCUS AREA
AMBITION
PERFORMANCE TARGET
2022 PERFORMANCE UPDATE
STATUS
MORE INFO
Human Rights
We are an enabling 
partner for the 
respect and 
promotion of human 
rights within our 
own operations and 
across our value 
chain
Incur zero gross human rights violations1 at our operations 
by employees or contractors
PT-FI identified three instances of underage workers employed 
by subcontractors of our main contractor at the Manyar smelter 
project; two of the workers were assigned potentially hazardous 
work, which on that basis were classified as gross human rights 
violations; FCX and PT-FI take this situation seriously and strictly 
prohibit underage workers
Page 33
Complete Human Rights Impact Assessment (HRIA) at 
Arizona sites in 2022
Completed in 2022
Page 36
Complete HRIA at PT-FI in 2023
Progressed HRIA at PT-FI during 2022 and currently on schedule to 
be completed in 2023 
Page 36
Complete HRIA at Cerro Verde, Colorado operations and 
Manyar smelter project in 2024
Planning stage initiated in 2022
Page 35
Responsible 
Supply Chains
We work with our 
supply chain and 
business partners 
to manage and 
promote responsible 
and sustainable 
practices
Complete supplier sustainability prioritization in 2022
Completed draft prioritization framework
Pages 38-43
Refine sustainability supplier prioritization and complete 
engagement process for priority categories in 2023
Engaged with consultant to benchmark best practices; work will 
continue in 2023
Pages 38-43
Ethics & 
Compliance
N/A²
Comprehensive training on Principles of Business Conduct 
(PBC), including certification of management-level 
employees
In 2022, 100% of employees were trained, including a 100% 
certification rate of management-level employees
Pages 29-31
Train 90% of selected employees on anti-corruption laws, 
regulations and company policies and procedures
In 2022, 100% of the employees selected to participate in the 
online training completed the course
Pages 29-31
 
Achieved/On Track
Missed
Lagging
1.	 Gross human rights violation — There is no uniform definition under international law; however, FCX's ongoing data collection and review processes is guided by the United Nations Office of the High Commissioner report, “The 
Corporate Responsibility to Respect Human Rights — An Interpretive Guide,” to identify such types of violations. In addition, FCX uses specific interpretation guidance for certain types of violations from various international 
organizations such as the International Labour Organization (ILO). Please see page 33.
2.	 Ambition statements were developed for the eight strategic focus areas determined in our materiality assessment and follow-on sustainability strategy update in 2021. Ambition statements were not developed for compliance 
obligations, which continue to be critically important to our business.
 14
1.	 TRIR = ((Fatalities + Lost-Time Incidents + Restricted Duty Incidents + Medical Treatment) x 200,000) / Total Hours Worked. 
2.	 Annual community investment target determined by 1% of the average of the previous 3 years’ annual mining operations revenues.
Achieved/On Track
Missed
Lagging
EMPOWERED PEOPLE & RESILIENT COMMUNITIES
FOCUS AREA
AMBITION
PERFORMANCE TARGET
2022 PERFORMANCE UPDATE
STATUS
MORE INFO
Health & Safety
We put safety first — for ourselves, for 
each other and for our communities — by 
championing a culture of health, safety and 
well-being wherever we do business
Incur zero workforce fatalities (employees + 
contractors)
For 2022, we regret to report one work-related 
fatality of a contractor at Morenci
Pages 46-50
2022 Target: 0.69 Total Recordable Incident Rate 
(TRIR1)

2023 Target: 0.71 TRIR
Our TRIR was 0.77 for 2022, which was higher than 
our 0.69 TRIR target for the year 
Pages 46-50
Workforce
Our culture is safety-focused, respectful and 
inclusive in order to empower our workforce 
to innovate, adapt and succeed
Increase the percentage of women employees, 
including representation in managerial roles, to 15%
At year-end, women represented 14.2% (compared 
to 13.4% as of year-end 2021) of our global employee 
population, 22.2% of our executive management 
team and 12.2% (compared to 12.1% as of year-end 
2021) of other managerial roles
Page 62
Continue to assess and enhance equitable 
pay practices and integrate into annual 
compensation review
In 2022, we completed an updated analysis of our 
gender pay equity and living wage assessment, 
which showed a gender pay equity gap ratio of 
more than 0.995 to 1 (female employee to male 
employee) and that compensation meets living 
wage benchmarks
Page 63
Communities & 
Indigenous 
Peoples
We work in partnership with our host 
communities and Indigenous Peoples 
to earn and maintain their trust and to 
contribute to long-term shared value and 
resilience
2022 Target: $171 million in community 
investments
2023 Target: $203 million in community 
investments2
Invested $177 million in community programs 
globally in 2022
Pages 76-77
 
 15
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
Achieved/On Track
Missed
Lagging
THRIVING ENVIRONMENTS
FOCUS AREA
AMBITION
PERFORMANCE TARGET
2022 PERFORMANCE UPDATE
STATUS
MORE INFO
Climate
We aspire to participate in — and 
positively contribute to — a 2050 net zero 
economy
Achieve GHG emissions reduction targets 
by 2030 (vs. 2018 baseline)
Continued to reduce GHG emissions intensity in the 
Americas (2.5% achieved versus 15% target for 2030) and 
PT-FI (26% achieved versus 30% target for 2030)
Pages 80-84
Develop GHG emissions reduction targets 
for primary molybdenum sites and Atlantic 
Copper smelter and refinery in 2022
Developed absolute GHG emissions reduction targets 
for primary molybdenum sites (35% target for 2030) and 
Atlantic Copper smelter and refinery (50% target for 2030)
Pages 80-84
Significantly advance Science Based 
Targets initiative (SBTi) process for 2030 
targets in 2022
Signed SBTi letter of commitment; completed analysis of 
SBTi target criteria relating to our Scopes 1, 2 and 3 GHG 
emissions; conducted strategic review with external firm of 
potential sectoral decarbonization approach for copper 
Pages 80-84
Water 
Stewardship
As responsible water stewards, we focus 
on minimizing our impacts on shared 
resources, while supporting the long-
term resilience of our operations, host 
communities and the environment
Conduct site-based review of water supply 
sources and use and improve water 
models to support target setting by end 
of 2023
Conducted a cross-functional water strategy development 
workshop; reviewed site-level water balance; prepared for 
a site-based pilot program in 2023 to evaluate water-related 
best practices; began evaluating emerging and existing 
technologies that could potentially support future target-
setting, which is now expected to occur after 2023
Pages 85-91
Biodiversity & 
Land Use
We aim to avoid or minimize impacts 
from our operations on biodiversity, 
while contributing to the conservation of 
biodiversity beyond our boundaries
Formalize and disclose biodiversity 
management plans at Cerro Verde, El 
Abra, Morenci and PT-FI (Grasberg 
operations) by the end of 2023
Progressed the development of biodiversity management 
plans
Pages 92-97
Tailings 
Management
We strive to continuously manage, 
enhance and innovate our tailings 
systems in a manner that minimizes 
impacts to stakeholders and the 
environment
Implement the Tailings Standard at tailings 
storage facilities (TSFs) with “extreme” or 
“very high” potential consequences by 
August 2023
In 2022, continued to advance conformance with the 
Tailings Standard at our Americas TSFs and are currently on 
track to meet the August 2023 timeline for applicable sites1
Pages 98-101
Implement the Tailings Standard at all 
other TSFs by August 2025
Progressing consequence classification review and Taiings 
Standard conformance across sites
Pages 98-101
Environmental 
Compliance
N/A2
Incur zero significant environmental 
events (as identified by our risk register 
process)3
Incurred one significant environmental event at El Abra in 
March of 2022
Pages 110-111
Incur zero penalties in amounts exceeding 
$100,000
Achieved in 2022
Pages 110-111
 
1.	 Our 2022 performance rating pertains to FCX's implementation progress on the Tailings Management in alignment with the ICMM compliant timelines. For our Copper Mark and ICMM performance expectation evaluations at each 
site, we rate ourselves as "Partially Meets" until the site has fully conformed to the Tailings Standard, when it will be rated as "Fully Meets". 
2.	 Ambition statements were developed for the eight strategic focus areas determined in our materiality assessment and follow-on sustainability strategy update in 2021. Ambition statements were not developed for compliance 
obligations, which continue to be critically important to our business.
3.	 Our risk register assessment uses a likelihood and consequence matrix with a scale on each axis from 1 through 4, with 4 being the highest likelihood or consequence. Significant environmental events are defined as those with a 
rating of 3 or higher on the consequence scale. 
 20
OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION: RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTION
Consistently executing our sustainability strategy means integrating sustainability into everything we do and 
enhancing our focus on responsible production. We are proud to play a leading role in setting the industry 
benchmark for responsible copper production by collaborating with stakeholders to innovate and drive change. 
Defining and implementing responsible production at FCX is an iterative process with continuous improvement 
at its core. We aim to drive responsible production practices throughout our operations by identifying the 
commitments and the corresponding responsible production frameworks that we believe will move the 
industry forward and help to meaningfully advance our operations and supply chains. These commitments 
include our strategic focus areas and related ambitions and performance targets, as well as commitments such 
as the UNGPs, the VPs and the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), among others. 
Ongoing stakeholder engagement is fundamental to informing our policies and processes as well as the 
voluntary commitments to which we subscribe.
We then integrate these commitments, policies and practices into our risk register process, which drives 
our actions. Regular measurement and reporting support our understanding of our current performance, 
including any gaps, and the actions we need to take to improve. Third-party validation of the implementation 
of our commitments at our operating sites and at the corporate level provides validation of our actions. At the 
foundation of this iterative process is robust governance, which is critical to embedding responsible production 
across the business. The graphic below depicts this process. 
VALIDATION
GOVERNANCE
POLICIES 
& PRACTICES
STAKEHOLDER 
ENGAGEMENT
VOLUNTARY 
COMMITMENTS
RISK REGISTER
ACTIONS
MEASURE 
& REPORT
Geologist at our Safford operation, Arizona.
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
 21
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
THE COPPER MARK 
The Copper Mark is a comprehensive assurance framework that promotes responsible production practices. It is the first and 
only framework developed specifically for the copper industry. The Copper Mark was initiated by the ICA, of which FCX is a 
member, in conjunction with various stakeholders including financial institutions, commodities exchanges, NGOs, OEMs and 
copper fabricators. The Copper Mark is now a separate entity from ICA and governed by an independent board, which includes 
NGO participation and a multi-stakeholder advisory council. To achieve the Copper Mark, sites are committed to adhering to 
internationally recognized responsible operating practices and specifically to a detailed framework covering 32 issues across 
five ESG categories developed by the Responsible Minerals Initiative’s Risk Readiness Assessment. The Copper Mark requires 
an independent external assurance process to assess conformance across the 32 issues at each site. Awarded sites are 
required to be revalidated by the Copper Mark every three years and communicate routinely with the organization on action 
plans to meet any “partially meets” criteria. 
FCX has achieved the Copper Mark at all 12 of its copper producing sites globally, including most recently at PT-FI in February 
2023. In addition, following the extension of the Copper Mark framework to molybdenum producers in 2022, our two primary 
molybdenum mines and our four copper mines that produce by-product molybdenum were awarded the Molybdenum Mark. 
FCX played a leading role in the development of the Copper Mark by actively participating in the organization’s multi-
stakeholder processes to further develop and work toward achieving its short- and long-term goals for growth. We continue to 
encourage our stakeholders, peers, customers and downstream users to join, collaborate and promote uptake of the Copper 
Mark validation process globally, with the ultimate goal of transparently demonstrating responsible production all the way to the 
end user. Learn more about the Copper Mark on our website and view our site-level assessment reports at coppermark.org. 
COPPER MARK 
STATUS BY SITE
AWARDED
Atlantic Copper smelter & refinery (Spain)
Bagdad mine (AZ)
Cerro Verde mine (Peru)
Chino mine (NM)
El Abra mine (Chile)
El Paso refinery & rod mill (TX)*
Miami smelter, mine & rod mill (AZ)
Morenci mine (AZ)
PT-FI mine (Indonesia) 
Safford mine (AZ)
Sierrita mine (AZ)
Tyrone mine (NM)
COPPER MARK CRITERIA CATEGORIES:
GOVERNANCE
LABOR RIGHTS
ENVIRONMENT
COMMUNITY
HUMAN RIGHTS
1 Legal Compliance
5 Child Labor
14 Environmental Risk 
Management
23 Community Health & 
Safety
26 Human Rights
2 Business Integrity
6 Forced Labor
15 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) 
Emissions
24 Community Development
27 Security & Human Rights
3 Stakeholder Engagement
7 Freedom of Association 
& Collective Bargaining
16 Energy Consumption
25 Artisanal & Small-scale 
Mining
28 Indigenous Peoples' 
Rights
4 Business Relationships
8 Discrimination
17 Freshwater Management 
& Conservation
29 Land Acquisition & 
Resettlement
9 Gender Equality
18 Waste Management
30 Cultural Heritage
10 Working Hours
19 Tailings Management
31 Due Diligence in Mineral 
Supply Chains
11 Remuneration
20 Pollution
32 Transparency & 
Disclosure
12 Occupational Health
21 Biodiversity & Protected 
Areas
13 Employee Grievance 
Mechanism
22 Mine Closure & 
Reclamation
MOLYBDENUM MARK 
STATUS BY SITE
AWARDED
Bagdad mine (AZ)**
Cerro Verde mine (Peru)**
Climax mine (CO)
Henderson mine (CO)
Morenci mine (AZ)**
Sierrita mine (AZ)**
LETTER OF COMMITMENT
Fort Madison (IA)
Rotterdam (Netherlands)
Stowmarket (United Kingdom)
*El Paso has been awarded the Nickel Mark 
in addition to the Copper Mark 
**Indicates sites that produce molybdenum 
as a by-product
Note: Status is as of April 20, 2023
 22
ICMM PERFORMANCE EXPECTATIONS 
ICMM is an organization dedicated to a safe, fair 
and sustainable mining and metals industry. As a 
founding member, FCX has been a leader for over 
20 years, and FCX’s Chairman and CEO served as Chair of ICMM from 
2008-2011 and 2020-2022. ICMM member companies are required to 
comply with its 39 performance expectations and its 10 Mining Principles 
for sustainable development. These expectations, along with topic-specific 
position statements and assurance and validation requirements, define 
ICMM’s membership commitments. The 39 performance expectations must 
be validated by a third-party at the site level with annual activities published, 
including how expectations will be met. 
RISK MANAGEMENT 
We implement several processes to identify and assess ESG-related 
risks, including our sustainability risk register process, our Enterprise Risk 
Management (ERM) program and our global climate scenario analyses. 
Risk Register 
We translate our responsible production commitments to everyday work 
through the use of our sustainability risk register process (risk register) which 
identifies, prioritizes, manages and tracks sustainability risks and actions at the 
corporate-and site-level. Defined in a global standard operating procedure, the 
process uses a risk assessment matrix to prioritize risks by both their likelihood 
and consequence, based on customized impact definitions by functional area 
to drive action. All risks require annual review, and detailed action plans are 
prepared for those rated as actionable. 
Sites use the risk register to identify risks and opportunities in relation to their 
operation and stakeholders. The risk register prioritizes risks that could have 
negative consequences to our business and our stakeholders in areas such 
as health and safety, human rights, environmental management, community 
development and economic impact. It also enables sites to identify and 
prioritize opportunities that could have positive consequences. Once the 
risks and opportunities are prioritized, action plans are developed. The risk 
register and these plans are the foundation of internal and external assurance 
processes at both the corporate level and operating sites. 
The risks included in the risk register are mapped to our external commitments, 
including all 39 ICMM performance expectations and the Copper Mark’s 
32 ESG requirements. Our risk register assists our teams to identify and 
prioritize the most significant risks to our business and our stakeholders. We 
work cross-functionally to implement our various commitments, and our risk 
register enables site-level management teams to focus on priorities while 
promoting globally consistent implementation across our operations. In 2022, 
we developed and implemented a new digital solution to transform the risk 
register into a more effective tool, enabling sites to easily share identified risks 
and action plans while digitally connecting identified risks to other tools in the 
system, such as action plans, stakeholder maps and incidents. 
Enterprise Risk Management 
Enterprise level risks are identified and assessed through our ERM program, 
designed to provide cross-functional executive insight across the business to 
identify and monitor risks, opportunities and emerging trends that can impact 
our strategic business objectives. Our ERM program provides the Board with 
information about the company’s enterprise risk profile and allows the Board to 
assess and monitor the risks over the short, medium and long term, both within 
and outside our operational boundaries.
Our ERM management committee is comprised of senior leaders with 
responsibility across operations and core business functions, and with a breadth 
of knowledge, influence and experience covering the risks the company faces. 
The ERM management committee reports to our president and periodically 
provides reports on, among other things, business strategy, geopolitical trends, 
markets, people, innovation and cybersecurity risks, to the audit committee, the 
CRC and full Board.
The ERM management committee is responsible for providing input and 
oversight on the ERM program, which seeks to link our global operations and 
business functions to (1) identify enterprise risks and opportunities, (2) analyze 
and prioritize risks, (3) review risk control environments, including through 
internal audit, and determine additional management actions where warranted, 
and (4) monitor and report progress. Key ESG-related risks are included in the 
ERM program.
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
INTEGRATING RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTION INTO GROWTH PROJECTS 
As the world transitions to a lower-carbon economy, demand for copper 
is expected to increase. We seek to support this increased global demand, 
responsibly. We employ a variety of baselining and risk management tools 
to identify and evaluate the potential sustainability-related impacts of our 
operations. Together, these tools help us characterize the current social, 
economic and environmental conditions and provide a baseline against 
which we can measure our performance over time.
We perform Environmental and Social Impact Assessments, which 
identify potentially affected stakeholders and potential impacts from the outset 
of new projects. We are currently working to integrate human rights impacts 
into these assessments to be better informed about impacts to people from 
growth projects.
As part of the internal risk review process, the Project Development 
Sustainability Review considers sustainability issues during the evaluation, 
and implementation of, potential expansion and development projects. The 
Project Development Sustainability Review process enables us to identify, 
prioritize and proactively manage potential risks before a project begins and 
throughout its development. The process is applied during the early stages 
of mine expansion and project development, particularly during scoping, 
prefeasibility and feasibility stages so that risks may be adequately addressed 
early and continuously throughout. The process also supports preparation for 
future closure of operations. 
Since its inception in 2011, we have undertaken reviews and implemented 
actions for 38 projects. Key focus areas identified at different project stages 
have included: access to water, energy and materials, potential impacts 
to hydrology, air quality, biodiversity, human rights, community receptivity, 
economic impacts, and land acquisition and resettlement. 
We applied this process during the design phase of our Manyar smelter 
project and precious metals refinery in Indonesia and are making regular 
updates during the construction phase. The project and corporate teams 
are working to address a number of actionable risks and opportunities, 
including risks to cultural heritage, climate change, water and human rights 
among others. 
The process complements the risk register process and serves as a key input 
to the risk register once a project is operational, enhancing the integration of 
sustainability into decision-making across the company.
During the year, we continued to 
progress construction of the Manyar 
smelter project near Surabaya, Indonesia. 
As global decarbonization 
accelerates, demand for 
copper is expected to increase.
 23
 24
In 2022, we committed to formal collaboration 
with Caterpillar’s Early Learner program and 
Komatsu’s GHG Alliance, both of which are 
focused on the development and advancement 
of zero-emissions mining trucks and supporting 
technologies and infrastructure. Heavy duty 
truck shop at our Sierrita operation, Arizona. 
 25
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
ROBUST GOVERNANCE 
FCX's governance structures are the foundation for delivering consistent, 
long-term stakeholder value, and they reflect our commitment to ESG matters 
and their importance to every aspect of our company. 
FCX has designed and implemented rigorous policies and processes that 
drive broad engagement with and strong accountability from company 
leadership on our ESG commitments. These policies and processes support 
our efforts to embed sustainability into company practices and integrate ESG 
into everyday decision making. 
Our governance structures support our focus on transparency, which we 
recognize is essential to building — and maintaining — enduring trust with 
stakeholders. We are committed to reporting on our ESG performance 
regularly, including through third-party assurance frameworks. We also seek 
to update and strengthen our governance structures so that we can continue 
to meet evolving stakeholder expectations. 
Accountability on ESG extends to the highest levels of the company, including 
to our Chairman and CEO, with active oversight from our Board. Across 
our workforce, expectations are consistently expressed through purposeful 
leadership, clear policies and rigorous training. 
These expectations embody the company’s commitment to ethical and legal 
conduct in all business practices and activities. Operating ethically and acting 
with integrity go beyond complying with laws and regulations to recognizing 
that the decisions we make as a company have an impact on others. That is 
one of the reasons why FCX's commitments extend beyond the boundaries of 
our operations, to advance the respect and promotion of human rights, raise 
the standards for our industry and drive responsibility across our value chains. 
Through our governance structures, we work to earn the respect, trust and 
confidence of our stakeholders by establishing and living up to the highest 
standards of responsible performance.
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
 26
GOVERNANCE
WHY IT MATTERS 
Effective governance aligns a company’s purpose, policies and practices to inform robust decision making. Strong 
governance is essential to achieving ESG commitments and integrates ESG broadly across a company by instituting 
procedures that drive engagement and accountability at the highest levels. 
OUR APPROACH 
Sustainability is embedded in FCX's values and business strategy. Governance and oversight of sustainability 
ultimately resides with the Board, with day-to-day oversight by the executive leadership and site-level 
management teams. Good governance requires focused and consistent leadership to ensure FCX's values and 
sustainability strategy are integrated into everyday operations and business decisions. We have the structure 
and processes in place to facilitate effective decision making and advance our stakeholders’ long-term interests. 
Given the breadth and complexity of sustainability issues, our governance structure seeks to leverage our internal 
regulatory and technical expertise to identify sustainability-related risks and opportunities through the effective 
management and oversight of an interdisciplinary team. 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
The Board oversees and guides the company’s business strategy and monitors the development and management 
of risks that impact the company’s strategic goals, including sustainability-related risks. In its risk oversight role, the 
Board reviews, evaluates and discusses with appropriate members of management whether the risk management 
processes designed and implemented by management are adequate in identifying, assessing, managing 
and mitigating material risks facing the company, including financial, international, operational, social and 
environmental risks. As part of our governance practices, the Board has a lead independent director with clearly 
defined responsibilities, providing an effective balance between strong company leadership and appropriate 
safeguards and oversight by independent directors. 
Certain areas of the Board’s risk oversight are delegated to its four standing committees: Audit, Compensation, 
Corporate Responsibility, and Governance. Each of these committees is composed entirely of independent directors 
and regularly reports to the full Board. Committee charters define the roles and responsibilities of each committee 
within the company’s governance framework. Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, along with the charters of 
our four standing Board committees, provide FCX's governance framework and reflect the Board’s commitment to 
monitor the effectiveness of policy, decision making and performance at both the Board and management levels.
Throughout 2022, our Board continued to exercise its active oversight role, with continued focus on the company’s 
health and safety performance, climate strategy and related progress, as well as other matters. The Board met 
six times in 2022 and also received regular communications throughout the year from our Chairman and CEO on 
various topics including key ESG-related matters. 
2022 KEY ESG TOPICS 
Board Meetings 
•	 Workforce health and safety 
• 	 ESG shareholder engagement 
feedback and ESG update 
• 	 Workforce inclusion and diversity update
• 	 Annual adoption of UK Modern 
Slavery Act Statement 
Corporate Responsibility 
Committee Meetings
•	 Workforce health and safety 
•	 Climate strategy and performance update
•	 Human rights program, including 
progress on human rights impact 
assessments (HRIAs) and annual 
adoption of UK Modern Slavery 
Act Statement 
•	 Tailings management, including progress 
implementing the Global Industry 
Standard on Tailings Management in 
the Americas
•	 Update on PT-FI’s human health 
assessment
•	 Water strategy and resilience update
•	 Social performance and charitable 
contributions 
•	 Political spending review
•	 Responsible sourcing of minerals 
program update 
Compensation Committee Meetings 
•	 Workforce health and safety
•	 Workforce recruitment, retention 
and development update
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
 27
BOARD OVERSIGHT OF ESG 
The CRC, on behalf of the Board, oversees the company’s environmental 
and social policies and implementation programs and related risks. The 
CRC reviews the effectiveness of the company's strategies, programs, 
and policy implementation with respect to health and safety, responsible 
production frameworks, climate, tailings management and stewardship, water 
stewardship, biodiversity and land management, waste management, human 
rights, stakeholder relations, social performance and Indigenous Peoples, 
responsible sourcing, and political activity and spending practices. During 
2022, the CRC had four regularly scheduled meetings. 
Additionally, each of the Audit, Governance and Compensation Committees 
oversee key ESG matters. The Audit Committee oversees our global compliance 
program and corporate compliance procedures and our information technology 
and cybersecurity processes and procedures. Additionally, tax matters are 
included within the audit committee's financial oversight responsibilities. The 
Governance Committee maintains our Corporate Governance Guidelines 
and oversees our corporate governance practices and procedures. The 
Compensation Committee oversees our human capital management policies, 
programs, practices and strategies, including those relating to workforce 
recruitment, retention and development, pay equity and inclusion and diversity.
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP
SITE GENERAL MANAGERS
FUNCTIONAL DEPARTMENT DIRECTORS
SUSTAINABILITY LEADERSHIP TEAM
GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY NETWORK
Business Unit 
Presidents
Senior Leadership 
Functional Departments
Corporate 
Responsibility
Committee 
Governance 
Committee
Audit
 Committee
Compensation 
Committee
OPERATIONS
CORPORATE
Effective governance 
aligns a company’s 
purpose, policies and 
practices to inform robust 
decision making.
FCX's Chairman and CEO 
visits with colleages at our 
Manyar smelter project 
near Surabaya, Indonesia.
 28
EXECUTIVE SUSTAINABILITY LEADERSHIP 
Our Chairman and CEO has ultimate responsibility for the company’s 
sustainability performance, with active oversight from the Board. Our cross-
functional Sustainability Leadership Team (SLT) includes members of 
management tasked with defining the sustainability strategy and implementing 
our sustainability policies, systems and programs across the organization 
to achieve integrated decision making for responsible production and 
performance. 
The SLT is sponsored by our Chief Administrative Officer and is led by our 
Chief Sustainability Officer, with active participation from other members of 
the SLT, including our five business unit presidents. SLT membership also 
includes senior leadership from functional groups including health and 
safety, security, supply chain, human resources, sales, legal, compliance, 
sustainability and finance. 
In 2022, the SLT met nine times and members of the SLT regularly reported to 
executive leadership, including our Chairman and CEO and our president. In 
addition, members of the SLT regularly report to the relevant Board committees 
on key ESG matters and periodically report to the full Board. 
Executive officers are held accountable for the company’s ESG performance 
in part through the company’s performance-based annual incentive program 
(AIP) via pre-determined ESG metrics aligned with our key ESG commitments 
and priorities. In 2022, ESG metrics collectively accounted for 25% of the AIP 
(15% safety and 10% sustainability), with the sustainability metric including 
the Copper Mark, climate, human rights, tailings management and workforce 
inclusion and diversity priorities.
37+38+15+10+J
2
5
%
 E
S
G
37.5% 
Operational
37.5% 
Financial
10% 
Sustainability
15% 
Safety
2022
ANNUAL INCENTIVE
PROGRAM
Our Chairman and CEO has 
responsibility for the company’s 
sustainability performance, with 
active oversight from the Board.
 29
 29
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
BUSINESS CONDUCT & POLICIES
WHY IT MATTERS 
Integrating responsible practices across a company with global operations 
requires comprehensive and disciplined efforts. Codifying Principles 
of Business Conduct (PBC) and policies helps ensure that a workforce 
understands behavioral expectations and has the tools and resources 
necessary to comply with a company’s stated principles and policies. 
OUR APPROACH 
FCX is guided by its PBC, the cornerstone of our commitment to ethical 
business practices. It defines the expected behavior of all our employees 
and the Board and sets forth the global principles that our workforce must 
follow in all activities — from complying with laws, to avoiding conflicts of 
interest, to treating colleagues and stakeholders with dignity and respect. The 
PBC highlights our core values — Safety, Respect, Integrity, Excellence and 
Commitment — and provides guidance for the application of these values to 
our business. 
Our PBC and Corporate Governance Guidelines, along with the charters 
of our Board committees, provide the framework for the governance of our 
company and reflect our commitment to monitor the effectiveness of policy 
and decision making at both the Board and management levels. 
We conduct comprehensive annual training on our PBC, including certification 
by management-level employees and induction training for all new employees. 
This process consists of in-person or computer-based training, requiring 
employees to certify both their understanding of, and compliance with, the 
PBC and to report any known or suspected instances of non-compliance. 
The training covers health & safety concepts, addressing harassment & 
discrimination, dealing with inappropriate behavior, preventing conflicts of 
interest and retaliation from co-workers, and reminds employees how to 
raise concerns via the Compliance Line. Managers and supervisors also are 
responsible for ensuring their direct reports understand these principles.
View more data in 
the Performance 
Data Section
Team member at El Paso 
rod and refining, Texas.
 30
 30
POLICIES & PRACTICES
Our PBC, together with our global policies and practices, details our expected 
behaviors and commitments to our stakeholders. Descriptions of FCX's key 
policies are provided below, and complete policies are available in local 
languages on the Corporate Governance section of our website. 
Anti-Corruption
Establishes FCX's zero tolerance policy for any form of corruption, private- 
or public-sector, and prohibits facilitation payments worldwide. Outlines 
procedures to comply with the FCPA and other relevant anti-corruption laws 
in all countries where we operate. 
Business Partner Code of Conduct 
In 2022, we expanded our Supplier Code of Conduct to a Business Partner 
Code of Conduct. Based on our PBC, it outlines our expectations for our 
business partners and supports our commitment to only do business with 
business partners, including suppliers and contractors, who meet the 
standards we set for ethical business conduct. 
Environmental 
Outlines our commitment to minimize the environmental impact of our 
operations, using risk management strategies based on valid data and sound 
science and, where practicable, to protect and enhance the quality of the 
environment in areas where we operate. The policy also outlines our duty 
to continuously improve the environmental performance of our operating 
sites through ISO 14001 management systems and our commitment to no 
mining and exploring in United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural 
Organization (UNESCO) World Heritage sites. 
Human Rights 
Outlines our commitment to respecting internationally recognized human 
rights standards, especially with respect to our workforce, host communities 
and Indigenous Peoples as well as cultural heritage. It also covers 
implementation of the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and 
Human Rights. The Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights (VPs) 
are the guidelines for our security programs. 
Inclusion & Diversity 
Outlines our commitment to fostering a culture that is safety-focused, 
respectful, inclusive and representative of the communities where we operate. 
It also describes how we advance our inclusion and diversity principles in the 
work we do. 
Political Activity & Spending Practices 
Sets forth our expectations regarding political activity and spending. It applies 
to FCX and its affiliated political action committees. 
Responsible Sourcing of Minerals 
Outlines our commitment to producing and sourcing minerals and metals 
responsibly, including respecting human rights; preventing bribery, fraud and 
corruption; and implementing the Organisation for Economic Co-operation 
and Development (OECD) Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Mineral 
Supply Chains in Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas. 
Safety & Health 
Establishes our objective of zero workplace fatalities, injuries and occupational 
illnesses, as well as benchmarks to evaluate our performance. The policy also 
addresses the implementation of safety and industrial health audits at our 
operations on a regular basis. 
Social Performance 
Recognizes the vital role of stakeholder engagement and Free, Prior and 
Informed Consent (FPIC). Calls for collaboration with communities, including 
indigenous and vulnerable populations, to avoid, minimize, mitigate and 
remedy adverse impacts and pursue opportunities to maximize benefits. 
Tailings Management 
Outlines our ongoing commitment to managing tailings responsibly, including 
protecting the health and safety of our workforce, host communities and the 
environment. The policy affirms our goal of zero fatalities, zero catastrophic 
failures and zero unplanned discharges from any of our tailings facilities 
globally and addresses the implementation of the Global Industry Standard on 
Tailings Management for our tailings storage facilities in the Americas.
 31
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
ANTI-CORRUPTION 
FCX recognizes that any violation of the FCPA or other anti-corruption and 
anti-bribery laws of any of the jurisdictions in which we operate could result 
in significant criminal or civil fines and penalties, litigation, loss of operating 
licenses or permits, as well as significant reputational damage. 
FCX has zero tolerance for corruption of any kind. In addition to our 
employees, we hold our business partners to this same standard. We do 
not obtain any business advantage through bribery, improper payments, 
kickbacks, or any other illegal means. No employee or business partner may 
offer, pay, solicit, or accept bribes in any form, including facilitation payments. 
Over a decade ago, FCX set out to modernize and grow our compliance 
function. The program today covers regulatory compliance in areas such as 
anti-corruption, international trade controls, conflicts of interest, discrimination 
and sexual harassment, forced labor and other subjects addressed in our PBC. 
Overall, the program is designed to identify potential problems before they occur. 
The company has a comprehensive anti-corruption infrastructure, designed to 
detect, mitigate, and remediate violations of legal and regulatory requirements. 
Our Anti-Corruption Policy and internal guidelines require compliance with the 
FCPA and other applicable laws of the countries and jurisdictions where we 
operate. In addition to our mandatory annual PBC training, we provide annual 
anti-corruption training for specific groups of employees, based on their roles, 
using a risk-based approach. In 2022, 100% of selected employees completed 
the online training course. 
Given the potential legal and reputational liability that could result from 
actions of our business partners and contractors under the FCPA and 
other laws, the company operates an online due diligence platform, the 
Freeport Compliance eXchange (FCeX). FCeX is a survey-based software 
platform designed to assess risk in the areas of anti-corruption, international 
trade, human rights and responsible sourcing, and includes a number of 
sustainability-related questions. FCeX enhances our ability to identify, assess 
and mitigate these compliance risks. The survey is utilized for new vendors as 
our first line of due diligence in our responsible sourcing program. Learn more 
in the Responsible Value Chains section. 
We perform annual company-wide program and risk assessments with 
assistance from our internal audit firm, Deloitte, and specialized external legal 
counsel, who both contribute to the following year’s assessment strategies. 
Business controls resulting from periodic fraud risk assessments are tested 
and reviewed annually at our corporate offices as well as at PT-FI, Cerro Verde, 
El Abra and Atlantic Copper. 
COMPLIANCE LINE & WORKFORCE GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS 
Our Compliance Line, along with our other reporting mechanisms, provides 
guidance and assistance to our workforce on any questions or concerns 
related to our PBC, policies or procedures. To encourage our workforce to 
report potential violations of business conduct, our Compliance Line permits 
anonymous reporting. Our business partners are also encouraged to use 
the Compliance Line, as detailed in our Business Partner Code of Conduct. 
For information on community grievance mechanisms please refer to the 
Communities & Indigenous Peoples section.
Compliance Line reports are investigated and acknowledged to the reporting 
party, and, if substantiated, the appropriate disciplinary action is taken, up to 
and including termination of employment. In addition to reporting through the 
Compliance Line, we encourage our workforce to engage directly with human 
resources or compliance team members at the site level to address topics 
best understood by those with local knowledge. In 2022, we received 372 
Compliance Line reports, many of which were human resource-related and a 
quarter of which were duplicative. Approximately 15% of reports received were 
substantiated.
In addition, for workplace-related grievances, our workforce can report 
information to the compliance department either via the phone, email or web 
portal. Reports are documented, reviewed and assigned for investigation, 
as appropriate. Our global human rights team is engaged for human rights-
related complaints. Throughout the process, management is briefed on the 
nature of the complaints and investigative results. Employees dissatisfied with 
the outcome of reports may turn to third-party interviewers for assistance 
based on their jurisdiction and any collective labor agreements. For more 
information on reporting workforce grievances and our investigation process, 
please see the grievance reporting website.
View more data in 
the Performance 
Data Section
 32
HUMAN RIGHTS
WHY IT MATTERS 
Human rights are internationally recognized, defined in the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights and codified in international law. Mining 
activities have the potential to impact the way people enjoy these rights ― 
as employees, contractors, suppliers, community members, human rights 
defenders and members of other groups. 
OUR APPROACH 
FCX is dedicated to the recognition, respect and promotion of human rights 
wherever we do business. Respect is a core value that guides how we do 
business at FCX. We are committed to respecting the rights of all people, 
including our employees, business partners, community members and others 
who potentially may be impacted by our business activities. We take this 
obligation seriously in all aspects of our business, and we expect the same of 
our business partners. 
We also recognize that human rights are overarching and that they connect 
to every aspect of our business. As such, we aim to promote human rights 
through proactive engagement with host governments and communities and 
by educating stakeholders, including training our employees and contractors. 
FCX respects internationally recognized human rights, including the 
rights under the International Bill of Human Rights, and is committed to 
implementing the UNGPs. We work toward continuous improvement in 
establishing greater institutional awareness and deeper understanding of what 
human rights are and how they impact every role within the company. We 
also are committed to complying with the UK Modern Slavery Act, aimed at 
minimizing the risk of slavery and human trafficking throughout our business 
and supply chain. Our most recent UK Modern Slavery Act Statement is 
available on our website. 
On a broader scale, we participate in multi-industry dialogues on respect for 
human rights ― including BSR’s human rights working group; Sustainability 
50’s executive-level peer-to-peer collaboration and information exchange on 
multiple topics, including human rights and responsible supply chains; ICMM 
working groups; and the VPs. These external initiatives, together with local 
and international-level stakeholder engagement, influence our human rights 
approach. Our work also continues to benefit from the support of third-party 
human rights consulting firms, which provide advisory support on our UNGPs 
implementation and assist in implementation of HRIAs.
We do not condone any form of threats, intimidation or violence against 
those who peacefully promote and defend human rights and we expect the 
same from our business partners. We recognize the value of an active and 
open society supported by the rule of law and believe it is important that our 
stakeholders are able to express their opinions in a safe manner without fear 
of reprisal or persecution.
POLICIES & PROGRAMS 
•	 Human Rights Policy – This policy states our commitments to the 
International Bill of Human Rights, the UNGPs and the VPs. Our 
Human Rights Policy includes expectations for our suppliers and other 
stakeholders across our value chain. 
•	 Business Partner Code of Conduct – Based on our PBC, our Business 
Partner Code of Conduct sets forth expectations for our business 
partners, including suppliers and contractors, in areas such as safety, 
human rights, anti-corruption, community and environment. We mandate 
human rights standards through our contracts with business partners. 
•	 Responsible Sourcing of Minerals Policy – This policy commits our 
business to identifying and mitigating human rights violations in our supply 
chains of minerals and metals for our downstream processing facilities. 
•	 Human Rights Impact Assessments – HRIAs are our primary method of 
conducting human rights due diligence at our active operations. HRIAs 
are conducted by third-party consultants, who gather direct input from 
internal and external rights holders. 
At the Board level, the CRC provides oversight of our human rights program. At 
the management level, the SLT provides oversight, and the program is directed 
and managed by our corporate- and site-level sustainability teams. Our PBC 
and other core policies ― including Anti-Corruption, Social Performance, 
Environmental, Health and Safety, and Inclusion and Diversity ― support 
the application of our Human Rights Policy. These policies and supporting 
management systems, along with relevant external standards and initiatives, 
guide our management of human rights risks. 
 33
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
PERFORMANCE 
Our human rights team continues to collaborate across our operations on 
an ongoing basis. During 2022, our global human rights team continued 
to support our sites and supply chain processes with the aim of further 
embedding respect for human rights across our business. The team held 
regular meetings with high-risk sites to discuss and address complex issues, 
enabling our operations to adapt quickly and keep respect for human rights 
at the forefront. In 2022, we also expanded our Supplier Code of Conduct 
to a Business Partner Code of Conduct, in order to include our downstream 
partners, including customers and recipients of charitable giving.
Our cross-functional human rights working group meetings resumed in 2022 
after being paused during the COVID-19 pandemic and will continue to meet 
on a regular basis moving forward. The working group is focused on driving our 
strategy globally and supporting our site-level implementation of the UNGPs 
and integration of human rights considerations across our business. Our 
significant ongoing work in 2022 focused on advancing our global human rights 
training program as well as our HRIAs, both of which are aimed at educating 
and improving internal and external stakeholder understanding of human rights. 
In addition, we are working to significantly improve the technology used for our 
risk register, stakeholder engagement and grievance management. 
ENHANCING HUMAN RIGHTS PRACTICES: MANYAR SMELTER PROJECT 
In alignment with our commitment to integrate responsible production practices 
into our development projects, we seek to conduct regular reviews of our 
Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) contractor and subcontractor 
performance at the Manyar smelter project and precious metals refinery that is 
currently under construction near Surabaya, Indonesia. In late 2022, during an 
internal review of subcontractor records for the project, potential instances of 
underage workers at the smelter project were identified. FCX and PT-FI strictly 
prohibit child labor as outlined in our Human Rights Policy. After investigation, 
three cases of individuals under the age of 18 (all three subcontractor employees 
were voluntarily employed and were 17 at the time) working on-site at the smelter 
project were confirmed, two of whom were involved in potentially hazardous work. 
Applying International Labour Organization guidelines, we have classified two of 
the three cases as gross human rights violations under our policies. The individuals 
were promptly dismissed from the project and provided compensation. 
PT-FI and its EPC contractor performed a root cause analysis to help prevent 
reoccurrence. The EPC contractor has since implemented both corrective 
and preventative actions including an enhanced worker screening process 
through a centralized hiring tracking system and bi-weekly meetings with 
its subcontractors and representatives from PT-FI in order to communicate 
expectations and review challenges. 
In addition, in collaboration with PT-FI’s EPC contractor and its subcontractors, 
PT-FI has implemented a Human Rights Ambassador program onsite. PT-FI 
facilitates the program which includes ambassador representation and support 
from both the EPC contractor and its subcontractors. To date, there are 35 
ambassadors working onsite helping to educate workers about their human 
rights and how to access available grievance mechanisms. The ambassadors 
are also a conduit to provide important feedback to PT-FI and the EPC 
contractor on potential issues. The ambassadors are trained by PT-FI’s human 
rights team and are invited to monthly coordination meetings. In addition, 
PT-FI is developing a social and human rights monthly inspection process 
in conjunction with its monthly environmental audits to enable proactive 
identification and resolution of potential human rights issues. 
FCX takes this incident seriously and PT-FI continues working closely with its 
EPC contractor and subcontractors to identify and prevent potential human 
rights risks that could result from the project. 
View more data in 
the Performance 
Data Section
Grasberg minerals 
district, Indonesia.
 34
HUMAN RIGHTS TRAINING 
Training is a core component of embedding respect for human rights across 
our business. Human rights considerations are currently included in our 
annual PBC training, which all employees undertake. In addition, in 2022, we 
began developing a new standalone global human rights training module 
designed to drive a consistent approach across the company and support 
greater awareness and understanding of human rights considerations, such as 
modern slavery, within the context of our operations. The new training module 
is expected to be completed, translated into relevant languages and rolled out 
across the company in 2023. 
In Indonesia and Peru, where both human rights and security risks are higher, 
we also conduct targeted training on human rights and the VPs. Training at 
these sites is led by dedicated site-based human rights compliance officers.
In 2022, PT-FI conducted approximately 19,500 hours of training at its 
Grasberg operations on our Human Rights Policy and the VPs either directly 
by PT-FI’s human rights office or indirectly through its Human Rights 
Ambassador program, which is designed to extend education and awareness 
of human rights to our contractors. Training included induction or refresher 
training for over 7,500 members of our workforce—3,700 of which were new 
employees—and training prior to deployment for approximately 1,600 police 
and military personnel. PT-FI’s Human Rights Ambassador program also has 
been implemented at the Manyar smelter project in Gresik. In collaboration 
with PT-FI’s human rights office, a team of human rights ambassadors 
employed by various contractors and subcontractors have received training to 
help provide culturally sensitive human rights induction training for the large 
workforce at the smelter project. In 2022, the project conducted approximately 
9,800 hours of training. 
In 2022, Cerro Verde had approximately 5,700 hours of training delivered 
either online or in-person for over 15,300 members of our workforce, and 
pre-deployment training for approximately 650 police personnel. 
VOLUNTARY PRINCIPLES ON SECURITY & HUMAN RIGHTS 
The VPs serve as guidelines for our security and human rights programs, 
including for interactions with host government police, military personnel 
and private security contractors. We focus our implementation primarily on 
Indonesia and Peru, which are higher-risk jurisdictions for security and human 
rights matters. 
Risk assessments help us identify security-related human rights risks and 
create action plans for specific site-level operating environments. Contracts 
with private security providers include requirements to comply with both our 
Human Rights Policy and the VPs. We maintain support agreements with 
host governments that detail the working relationships between the company 
and the public security personnel assigned to it. Dedicated human rights 
compliance officers lead training for security employees, security contractors 
and host government security. They also receive, document and follow up 
formally and informally on reported human rights incidents, grievances and 
allegations. Refer to our annual reports to the Voluntary Principles Plenary on 
our website for more information. 
PROMOTING HUMAN RIGHTS IN COMMUNITIES
PT-FI regularly conducts educational programs and activities 
in the community to help raise awareness and understanding 
of human rights. In 2022, PT-FI’s human rights team launched 
a special campaign to inspire local youth about human 
rights and tolerance. The campaign reached youth groups at 
Maranatha Christian Church in Timika and children at Lembaga 
Pengembangan Anak Terlantar dan Putus Sekolah, a local 
NGO that supports homeless and disadvantaged children. The 
children participated in creative art activities and watched short 
videos to teach them about human rights, their own rights and 
their obligations towards others. More than 150 children actively 
participated in the campaign.
 35
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
DUE DILIGENCE 
As we seek to further embed respect for human rights across our organizational 
activities, we have various due diligence processes that help us to identify and 
assess which human rights topics are most salient at the site-level so that we 
can manage and integrate these risks into our ongoing operational work. We 
use our risk register process to identify risks to people at our existing operations. 
We also have a risk identification process for our new or growth projects to 
address potential and actual impacts on rights holders. We implement and 
refine our approach to human rights through ongoing stakeholder engagement, 
grievance management and the findings from our HRIAs. 
HRIAs, conducted by third-party consultants using methodologies aligned 
with the UNGPs, are our primary method for conducting human rights due 
diligence at our operations, including a sampling of our onsite contractors and 
local suppliers. These assessments involve direct input from a broad cross-
section of internal and external rights holders, and they support continuous 
improvement of our management systems by testing their effectiveness in 
identifying and addressing potential, actual and perceived human rights risks 
and impacts. Findings from the HRIAs also help to inform our approach when 
pursuing potential expansion opportunities and updating corporate- and 
site-level practices. We also are integrating human rights into social baseline 
studies for our operations as well as the social baseline studies and impact 
assessments conducted for greenfield projects and brownfield expansions.
For a description of our general HRIA methodology, please visit the Human 
Rights – Due Diligence section of our website.
In addition to HRIAs, our responsible sourcing programs require human rights 
due diligence on suppliers of both goods and services, and minerals and 
metals for further processing. The development of these programs is informed 
by our HRIA findings. In 2022, we advanced our approach to assessing 
supplier human rights and other sustainability-related risks, which we discuss 
in more detail in our Responsible Value Chains section. 
HRIA in Chile 
Following completion of the third-party El Abra HRIA in late 2021, El Abra 
developed action plans and integrated the HRIA findings into the site’s risk 
register during 2022. The findings indicated that El Abra is a low impact 
operation, reflective of its remote location and supported by the site’s effective 
management systems and strong governance, which help to prevent risks 
from manifesting. 
Many of the potential human rights-related risks and impacts identified at El 
Abra were already well-managed by the site’s existing management systems. 
Where the findings identified actual or potential gaps in a management 
system for a particular human rights-related risk, cross-functional teams 
developed action plans. Action plan examples include expanding community 
inclusive water monitoring, working with contractor companies to improve 
distribution of gender-specific personal protective equipment, extending 
semi-annual audits to local selected suppliers on a risk basis, and working 
with indigenous communities to develop initiatives aimed at improving access 
to and preservation of tangible and intangible cultural heritage in the region, 
among others. To learn more, please see the 2021 El Abra HRIA Summary. 
HUMAN RIGHTS IMPACT ASSESSMENT STATUS
YEAR 
CONDUCTED
2013
2017
2018
2021
2021-22
2022-23
2023-24
Site/Region
Corporate
Cerro Verde
New Mexico sites
El Abra
Arizona sites
PT-FI—Grasberg
Cerro Verde1, 
Colorado sites, 
PT-FI—Manyar 
smelter 
Status
Complete
Complete
Complete
Complete
Complete
In Progress
Planned
1.	 The political and security situation in the region of Arequipa may impact the timing of the HRIA at Cerro Verde. 
 36
HRIA in Arizona 
In 2021, we engaged a third-party consultant, Verisk Maplecroft, to conduct a 
HRIA of our five active Arizona operations — Bagdad, Miami, Morenci, Safford 
and Sierrita. The consultant carried out direct engagement through structured 
face-to-face and remote interviews with over 420 stakeholders across all 
five of our sites. The HRIA was designed to specifically consider the unique 
stakeholder connections across our sites, including relations with neighboring 
federally recognized Native American Tribes. 
The overall impact profile for our Arizona sites was relatively low, reflective of the 
U.S. regulatory environment, and supported by effective site-level management 
systems, audits and responsible production assurance processes (e.g., the 
Copper Mark), which help to prevent risks from manifesting. However, some 
potential and actual impacts were identified, including workforce health and 
safety, working conditions, community standards of living, and community 
health and safety. Where the findings identified actual or potential gaps in a 
management system associated with a particular human rights-related topic, 
cross-functional teams are developing action plans to further investigate, 
prevent and/or remedy human rights risks and impacts. In 2023, we intend 
to leverage our existing engagement mechanisms to communicate with 
stakeholders on the key findings from the HRIA and plan to involve relevant 
stakeholders in the development of our action plans, where appropriate. We 
expect to publish a summary of the findings and recommendations on our 
website later in 2023. 
HRIA in Central Papua, Indonesia 
In late 2021, we initiated planning for an HRIA at our Grasberg operations in 
Indonesia and hired a third-party consultant, Acorn International, to undertake 
the assessment. During 2022, we worked with the consultant to develop and 
plan a tailored approach, taking into consideration the unique and complex 
nature of the site. We are specifically focusing our due diligence on PT-FI's 
business processes and systems, with the aim of improving their ability to 
effectively identify and address human rights risks and impacts. In 2023, the 
consultant will conduct the stakeholder engagement phase of the assessment 
through internal and external stakeholder interviews. We currently expect to 
complete the assessment later in 2023 and publish a summary of the findings 
and recommendations on our website.
In addition to HRIAs, our responsible 
sourcing programs require human 
rights due diligence on suppliers of 
both goods and services, and minerals 
and metals.
Electrowinning facility at our 
Morenci operation, Arizona. 
 37
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
ILLEGAL ARTISANAL MINING
At our Grasberg operations in Indonesia, illegal artisanal miners seek economic 
opportunity by panning for unrecovered gold from our milling operations in our 
controlled riverine tailings system. While artisanal mining within PT-FI’s area of 
work is illegal under Indonesian law, on average, approximately 4,000 artisanal 
miners and additional women and children associated with the artisanal miners 
have established camps at various points within the Lowlands and Highlands. 
About 75% of artisanal miners in the Lowlands come from outside Central 
Papua and represent over 45 different ethnic groups, while artisanal miners 
in the Highlands are 99% ethnic Papuans. Many of the illegal artisanal miners 
do not have expertise operating in hazardous conditions, including the remote 
terrain and varied climatic conditions experienced at Grasberg. Additional 
safety challenges exist as PT-FI’s ongoing levee maintenance and earthworks, 
which are needed to responsibly manage the controlled riverine system, occur 
alongside illegal artisanal miners. 
To mitigate the potential social, security, safety, environmental and operational 
risks associated with illegal artisanal mining, in 2022, PT-FI developed an 
updated cross-functional management plan to help address the artisanal mining 
challenges. The aim of the plan is to reduce the number of illegal artisanal 
mining panners within PT-FI’s operating area and artisanal mining-related 
disruptions to PT-FI’s operations. PT-FI updated the cross-functional team 
members' responsibilities across various divisions including legal, occupational 
health and safety, operations, environment, community affairs, the project 
management office and the human rights compliance office. Continued efforts 
include educational campaigns, monitoring the environment for mercury use, 
strengthening check points, and increased unmanned aerial systems patrols 
and focus on joint patrols with third-party security personnel. 
PT-FI’s community liaison officers and third-party contractors seek to 
proactively and continuously engage the artisanal mining communities on 
operational changes in an effort to manage their expectations, encourage 
them to seek alternative livelihoods, and to minimize risks to the operations 
and to the artisanal miners and their families. PT-FI also seeks to inform 
the artisanal miners in advance of planned levee maintenance work and 
equipment movements to minimize safety risks. As part of PT-FI’s ongoing 
engagement with the illegal artisanal mining community, PT-FI continued 
to carry out human rights education in 2022, with a focus on the rights of 
children (particularly on preventing child labor) living in the artisanal mining 
camps in our area of work. The training is carried out through a partnership 
between PT-FI’s human rights and community liaison officers and a third-party 
contractor involved in managing illegal artisanal mining activities.
PT-FI cannot address illegal artisanal mining on its own. A multi-faceted 
approach — including government cooperation, security risk management, 
stakeholder engagement and socioeconomic development for alternative 
livelihoods — is essential. To that end, PT-FI’s artisanal mining management 
plan includes regional and national objectives to help build strategic 
partnerships for a multi-stakeholder artisanal mining strategy. For more 
information about our controlled riverine tailings system and the dangers 
associated with illegal artisanal mining, please refer to the Tailings 
Management section and the Health and Safety section.
GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS & REMEDY 
We maintain grievance mechanisms for employees, community members, 
members of our supply chain, and others to report potential human rights 
concerns. These mechanisms support our commitment to remedy by helping 
us address concerns early and remediate impacts directly. We work to promote 
awareness of these mechanisms through a variety of means, including through 
posters, company webpages, stakeholder engagement and training. 
While we seek to avoid causing and contributing to adverse impacts on people 
and communities, we acknowledge they may occur. We are committed to 
providing for, and cooperating in, the remediation of adverse impacts related to 
our business as well as collaborating with value chain stakeholders to address 
impacts linked to our business relationships, where appropriate. Remedy can 
take a range of forms, including cessation of impact, apology, restoration of 
what was lost, cash or in-kind compensation, and/or rehabilitation. Remedy 
could also involve the identification of lessons learned and steps taken to 
prevent re-occurrence. Use of our internal and external grievance mechanisms 
does not preclude access to judicial or other non-judicial grievance 
mechanisms. In the event of accusations made through a state-based, non-
judicial grievance mechanisms, we are committed to participating in related 
proceedings constructively, cooperatively and in good faith. To learn more, 
please refer to the Business Conduct & Policies section and the Communities & 
Indigenous Peoples section. 
 38
RESPONSIBLE VALUE CHAINS
WHY IT MATTERS 
How a company sources goods and services can have a significant impact 
across all ESG matters. Globally, human rights and environmental issues 
in supply chains have been receiving increasing scrutiny from consumers, 
NGOs, regulators and stakeholders. As a result, users of minerals and metals, 
such as automotive and electronics original equipment manufacturers, have 
taken steps to improve due diligence in their own supply chains, which has 
led to more attention within the mining industry. This pressure heightens 
expectations and responsibility for robust due diligence by mineral and metal 
producers globally. 
OUR APPROACH 
FCX is committed to sourcing, producing, and distributing metals and 
minerals responsibly across our entire value chain. Our commitment will 
take on greater importance in the years ahead, as we expect global demand 
for copper to increase, due in part to copper’s key role in contributing to the 
technologies that will enable the energy transition. The EU and several of its 
member states have developed due diligence requirements in supply chains 
covering human rights risks and environmental issues. These may apply to 
companies with operations located within the EU and globally for products 
that are imported into the region. In preparation for these requirements, 
as well as increasing expectations from customers along the value chain, 
FCX continues to work diligently to advance its supply chain management 
models by incorporating ESG risks into its systems and tools for decision 
making and supplier management. 
Supply chains globally continue to be impacted by production shortages and 
political instability, reinforcing the need for resilient, agile and transparent 
supply chain models. Despite these challenges, we are proud of our ability to 
manage our supply chain effectively and responsibly and we aim to ensure 
continuity of supplies necessary for our operations in a responsible way 
moving forward. Our responsible value chain program focuses on three key 
programs: (1) identifying and mitigating risks in our supply chains through our 
own responsible sourcing efforts for goods, services and minerals, (2) product 
stewardship to manage the in-use risks of our products and by-products, and 
(3) working to better understand the full life cycle impacts of our products 
along the value chain. 
SUPPORTING THE SAFETY OF OUR CONTRACTORS
FCX is dedicated to promoting a positive and supportive safety culture 
for our employees and contractors. We believe this is critical to the 
sustainability and success of our safety program. When it comes to 
safety, employees and contractors have access to the same tools and 
resources and are equally expected to take personal responsibility for 
their own safety and the safety of others. 
To that end, our supply chain team has initiated a comprehensive 
evaluation of our contractor management program aimed at identifying 
opportunities for improvement and to ensure alignment with long-term 
strategic company objectives. As part of this evaluation, a contractor 
engagement team was established. This team includes individuals 
from supply chain, safety, operational improvement, operations and 
business units. The team requested feedback from onsite contractors and 
employees based in North America to gain their perspective on FCX’s 
culture and how contractors are treated and supported by FCX. While 
the feedback received was predominately positive, we also received 
constructive feedback, such as to standardize safety requirements 
across all sites and regions, which we are reviewing for improvement 
opportunities. This work will continue throughout 2023.
El Abra operation, Chile.
 39
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING 
As demands for transparency across the value chain increase, FCX has been 
building and strengthening its approach to responsible sourcing and working 
to extend this approach downstream to our immediate customers. To support 
this effort, in 2022, we extended our previous Supplier Code of Conduct to 
include our business partners, which includes our suppliers, contractors, 
customers and recipients of charitable giving. We began integrating what 
is now referred to as our Business Partner Code of Conduct into new and 
renewed contracts starting in 2022. Our Business Code of Conduct covers a 
range of ESG areas by aligning it with our Responsible Sourcing of Minerals, 
Social Performance and Human Rights policies. 
Our Business Partner Code of Conduct and our compliance screening 
processes represent the foundation of our responsible sourcing program for 
all suppliers globally. This is a significant undertaking, as it covers more than 
20,000 suppliers that provide a wide variety of goods and services — from small 
catering businesses in remote locations to large multinational corporations that 
produce heavy machinery or minerals and metals. We use a combination of 
tools to understand and monitor supplier risk and to encourage compliance 
with our Business Partner Code of Conduct. FCeX is the company’s online due 
diligence platform that has been in place for many years. This survey-based 
software platform has enhanced our ability to identify, assess, and mitigate 
compliance risks in areas of anti-corruption, international trade and human 
rights. FCeX also provides data analytics and important metrics that help FCX 
audit supplier commitments and actions for minerals and metals sourcing.
In recent years, we have improved our systems and processes related 
to due diligence, risk-monitoring and in-depth assessments to allow for 
quicker access to supplier data and information as well as streamlined risk 
identification. These include enhancing the responsible sourcing section in the 
FCeX survey, completing the global roll out of the FCeX tool, and implementing 
SAP Ariba Supplier Risk Management and Supplier Lifecycle and Performance 
onboarding tools, which enable us to more effectively identify and mitigate 
risks in these relationships. For example, in 2022, we finished integrating 
relevant Verisk Maplecroft country- and industry-level ESG risk indices into 
the SAP Ariba platform based on our potential supply chain risks and selected 
supplier metrics. Integration of onsite contractor safety data into the SAP 
Ariba platform will begin in 2023. With these screening tools in place, we are 
working to complete a risk-based decision making tool to identify higher risk 
suppliers where closer collaboration is warranted, for example through on-the-
ground audits or partnerships.
BUSINESS 
PARTNER CODE 
OF CONDUCT
MONITORING
DUE DILIGENCE
TRACKING 
PERFORMANCE 

& REPORTING
RISK
ASSESSMENT
PREVENTION/
MITIGATION
SUPPLIER RISK
MANAGEMENT
Our Business Partner Code of Conduct 
and our compliance screening 
processes represent the foundation of 
our responsible sourcing program for 
all suppliers globally.
 40
Responsible Sourcing of Minerals & Metals 
FCX's Responsible Sourcing of Minerals Policy commits us to identifying 
and mitigating human rights violations in our supply chains of minerals 
and metals used in our downstream processing facilities. The policy also 
describes how we implement the OECD Guidance. Our policy and the 
implementation of OECD Guidance is a critical component to address the 
London Metals Exchange’s (LME) requirements on responsible sourcing, 
necessary to maintain LME brand approval. This work is also a requirement 
of both the ICMM Mining Principles Framework and the Copper Mark. 
Since the policy was established in late 2019, we have been implementing 
it across our copper mining, smelting, and refining operations and our 
molybdenum operations. In 2022, we began implementing it for our 
purchases of secondary copper materials. In addition to the responsible 
sourcing process outlined above, to implement this policy, we assess our 
incoming metal and mineral supply chains to identify potential “flags” 
associated with what the OECD Guidance defines as Annex II risks — such 
as bribery, corruption, human trafficking, and child or forced labor. We then 
undertake a risk-based due diligence process to help us better understand 
the potential impact (if any) from the identified risks. An internal committee 
then reviews these results and takes appropriate action, which can include 
working with a metal supplier to identify and implement an action plan or 
collaborating with a supplier to build the capacity needed to address risks. 
The action plan may also include relevant contract clauses which escalate 
based on risk. 
In 2022, we continued implementation of the OECD Guidance’s five-step 
framework across the business and also continued partnerships with key 
traders to improve risk identification and systems. Following publication 
of our 2021 OECD Step 5 Due Diligence Report, in which we provided a 
summary of our efforts in 2021 and early 2022, we continued business-
to-business collaborations to evaluate risks and share best practices. We 
added people with responsible sourcing expertise to our team, improved 
internal process documentation, developed additional tools to support 
purchasing decisions, and refined our approach to several aspects of 
policy implementation.
Meeting Responsible Sourcing Requirements 
The LME is the primary international exchange for base metals. FCX currently 
has nine copper cathode brands registered with the LME, which allows us 
to use LME contracts for the sales of our products to customers. In late 2019, 
the LME announced its responsible sourcing requirements for all current 
and future LME-registered brands. These included the implementation of the 
OECD Guidance’s five-step framework, as well as ISO certifications covering 
environmental and worker health and safety issues. 
In early 2021, the Copper Mark and its partners published a base metals due 
diligence standard, which provides specific requirements for producers of 
copper, nickel, lead and cobalt to meet the OECD Guidance and provides 
clarity to the mining industry on how to comply with the LME’s responsible 
sourcing requirements. 
As a result, in 2022, we were able to begin the LME responsible sourcing 
compliance process well ahead of the LME’s stated schedule due to our 
existing Copper Mark certifications. We plan to submit the remaining 
information in line with LME requirements later in 2023, which we believe will 
bring all nine of our registered brands into LME compliance.
Additionally, in July 2022, the Copper Mark published a chain of custody 
standard, which aims to connect parties from the mine to original equipment 
manufacturers of end use products such as automobiles and electronics. The 
chain of custody standard will enable the Copper Mark status to be identified 
throughout the entire value chain, ultimately supporting end-use, product-level 
“Copper Mark copper” claims and providing transparency along the value 
chain. In partnership with two of its customers, FCX began voluntarily piloting 
the standard in 2022 and will continue this work into 2023.
Establish strong 
company 
management 
systems
1
Identify
& assess 
risk in the 
supply chain
2
Design & 
implement 
a strategy to 
respond to 
identified risks
3
Carry out 
independent 
third-party audit
of supply chain 
due diligence
4
Report annually
on supply chain 
due diligence
5
OECD 5-STEP FRAMEWORK1
1.	 www.OECD.org
 41
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
LOCAL PROCUREMENT 
FCX remains committed to supporting our local host communities and 
recognizes the critical role our host communities, and the businesses in these 
communities, play in our daily operations and our company’s success. Globally, 
we seek to train and encourage buyers and contract administrators to provide 
opportunities to local suppliers when possible and in alignment with our 
business needs. We are active members of WEConnect International, a global 
network that connects women-owned businesses to qualified buyers around 
the world, working to enable them to compete in the global marketplace. 
As the supply chain challenges from 2021 continued into 2022, we were 
able to continue addressing those challenges by being innovative and 
partnering with local vendors. For example, in New Mexico, we partnered 
with local contractors to provide shift coverage for our front-line employees 
in maintenance and operational roles so that they could attend training. 
Once COVID-19 restrictions eased, we reengaged local suppliers through 
formal presentations that explained how they could do business with FCX. 
For instance, in partnership with the Small Business Development Center at 
Eastern Arizona College, our Safford and Morenci operations conducted a 
“How to do Business with Freeport-McMoRan” event in late 2022.
We continue to prioritize greater transparency in our local procurement 
spending, with a focus on expanding opportunities for local suppliers, where 
feasible. We have implemented standard operating procedures and/or plans 
emphasizing local procurement at our North America, PT-FI, Cerro Verde and 
El Abra operations. In 2022, we continued our engagement with the Mining 
Local Procurement Reporting Mechanism (LPRM), which is an initiative that 
seeks to develop, through disclosures, a set of common standards agreed 
by both host countries and mining companies for what constitutes local 
procurement. FCX has met the LPRM disclosure requirements which requires 
a disclosure of local procurement spend by site and additional information for 
existing and potential suppliers, which is available on the Suppliers page of 
our website.
We continue to prioritize greater 
transparency in our local 
procurement spending, with a 
focus on expanding opportunities 
for local suppliers.
View more data in 
the Performance 
Data Section
Approximately 71% of our 2022 
procurement spend on services at our 
Safford operation was with local suppliers.
 42
 42
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP 
Product stewardship is critical to our business across the suite of minerals and 
metals we produce. It entails a variety of activities that provide our customers 
with valuable data and insights, enables our products to enter global markets 
and to be used safely by downstream users. Activities range from complying 
with chemicals management regulations related to transport and labeling, to 
working with members of our value chains and commodity associations to 
encourage the use of sound science when assessing the health, safety and 
environmental risks associated with our products. 
FCX's Product Stewardship Forum meets several times per year and is 
comprised of members of our commercial, sustainability, quality, health and 
safety, and operations teams. The forum tracks, assesses and monitors work 
across a variety of issues related to product stewardship globally. In 2022, 
this included updates of our safety data sheets for our products entering the 
EU market required by recent revisions to those regulations, advancing work 
with our peers at both ICA and IMOA on the scientific profiles of both copper 
and molybdenum as they relate to human and environmental exposure and 
deploying results in regulatory environments to ensure continued market 
access for our products. 
FCX's Product Stewardship Forum meets several 
times per year and is comprised of members of 
our commercial, sustainability, quality, health and 
safety and operations teams.
El Abra operation, Chile.
 43
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
UNDERSTANDING OUR PRODUCT FOOTPRINT 
Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) provide an overview of environmental 
impacts across a product’s life cycle to enable producers to identify 
improvement opportunities and trade-offs. Globally, governments increasingly 
are using LCAs as impact assessments in Circular Economy frameworks 
and for carbon and water footprint comparisons. In 2022, ICA completed an 
update to its previous global LCA profile for copper concentrate and cathode. 
FCX played a key role in this work, providing data from our mining, smelting 
and refining facilities. In 2022, ICA also released guidance for producers 
to enable a more consistent calculation of the carbon footprint of copper 
production across the industry. This “best practice” guidance provides a 
harmonized and consistent approach to determining the carbon footprint of 
copper operations and the products they produce. The Copper Development 
Association (the partner organization to ICA in North America) also reinitiated 
a project to conduct an LCA of copper rod used for electrical applications. 
Work on this project will continue in 2023. 
FCX is also critically focused on our own carbon footprint, and in particular, 
on reducing our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions. FCX now has four 2030 GHG 
emissions (Scope 1 and 2) reduction targets, which collectively cover nearly 
100% of our global Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions and are critical to reducing 
the carbon footprint of our products. In 2022, we also published a significant 
update to our Scope 3 GHG emissions inventory globally. We continue to 
refine and improve our Scope 3 GHG emissions inventory, and in conjunction 
with our LCA efforts, we believe this will enable us to eventually provide 
a more complete carbon footprint per ton of product to our customers for 
both copper and molybdenum and support our customers' efforts to meet 
demands of downstream users. For more information on our climate strategy, 
please see the Climate section.
In 2022, the ICA completed an update 
to its global Life Cycle Assessment 
profile for copper concentrate and 
cathode and FCX played a key role 
in this work, providing data from our 
mining, smelting and refining facilities.
Copper cathode at Cerro 
Verde operation, Peru.
 44
The well-being of people — whether our 
workforce, partners or stakeholders — is 
essential to the success of our business and at 
the core of all we do. Team member at our El 
Abra operation, Chile.
 45
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
EMPOWERED PEOPLE
& RESILIENT COMMUNITIES 
The well-being of people — whether our workforce, partners or community 
members — is essential to the success of our business and at the core of 
all we do. 
We are deeply committed to engaging and building trusting, ongoing 
relationships with the people most impacted by our operations. The programs 
and progress described in this section reflect our focus on empowering our 
workforce and the people in our host communities to thrive today and into 
the future. Our efforts, which are focused on protecting and supporting our 
workforce, host communities and Indigenous Peoples, also aim to support 
future resilience in a changing world. 
In 2022, we worked internally to fortify existing systems that protect the 
health, safety and well-being of our workforce, including through maturity 
assessments of our Fatal Risk Management program to drive meaningful, 
targeted improvements across our global operations. We are also utilizing 
data analytics to better identify which employee groups are at the highest risk 
for experiencing a safety incident. In addition to a traditional focus on safety, 
we aim to support our employees with expanded mental health care benefits.
In 2022, we participated in an ICMM Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) 
working group to review ICMM’s performance expectations and consider 
broader industry efforts to enhance workforce culture. We will be working 
over the next two years to implement these DEI-related performance 
expectations across our business. 
Externally, we are also focused on supporting the health and well-being of 
the people in the host communities where we operate, recognizing that our 
workforce and communities are often one in the same. In 2022, we continued 
to work in partnership to conduct an in-depth health study at PT-FI during 
the year. We also continue to support the communities where we operate by 
embracing the cultural heritage of our Indigenous neighbors and promoting 
respect for human rights wherever we do business. For example, our 
Building Trust approach has deepened our engagement with our Indigenous 
neighbors, and we launched a corporate training initiative focused on Native 
American cultural sensitivity and awareness. We believe this training will help 
enable our workforce to have more effective dialogue with our Indigenous 
neighbors by helping us understand their values.
 46
HEALTH, SAFETY & WELL-BEING
WHY IT MATTERS 
Mining by its nature is associated with hazardous work that must be carefully understood and managed. On a daily basis, 
our mining workforce engages in hazardous activities that could lead to a serious injury or even a fatality, such as drilling 
and blasting rock, operating heavy machinery, using chemicals, working with high-voltage electricity, working at heights 
or below surface and working with high-temperature materials. Outside the fence line, mining can also create potentially 
hazardous exposures for local community members. Globally, different regions face different health and well-being 
challenges, and understanding these challenges at a local level is critical to supporting a healthy workforce and community. 
OUR APPROACH 
Safety is a core company value and is foundational to our sustainability approach. Our highest priority is the health, 
safety and well-being of our employees, contractors, suppliers and the communities where we operate. We believe 
that health and safety considerations are integral to, and fundamental for, our operational success and efficiency and 
ultimately to our ability to deliver long-term value to our stakeholders. 
We strive to achieve zero workplace fatalities, high-risk incidents, injuries and occupational illnesses by creating a safe 
and healthy workplace. This includes providing the training, tools and resources needed so our workforce can identify 
risks and consistently apply effective controls. We share information and key learnings about potential fatal events, 
high-risk incidents, and best practices throughout the company, and we engage with industry peers and professional 
organizations to learn and continuously improve our health and safety program.
We carefully monitor our workforce’s potential exposures to hazardous dust, chemicals, noise and similar agents to 
better control occupational health risks. We partner with occupational medicine experts to implement comprehensive 
medical screening for employees who work with potentially hazardous substances. 
Our Safe Production Matters strategy is focused on fatality prevention and continuous improvement through robust 
management systems, safe work behaviors and our safety culture, supported by leaders empowering our teams to 
work safely. We further seek to prevent fatalities and high-risk incidents by leveraging technology to support safe work 
practices in the field and leveraging analytics to support data-driven decisions made in combination with behavioral 
science principles. 
Other focus areas include eliminating systemic root causes of incidents, especially those that could lead to recurrence, 
increasing verification of corrective actions over time, applying lessons across the company globally and reducing the 
occurrence of low-risk incidents. During the year, we continued our work to provide operational leaders with timely and 
transparent information to support and encourage quality safety discussions with employees in the field. 
In addition to safety, we aim to work in partnership with our host communities to support their overall health and 
well-being by monitoring and addressing regional health challenges such as malaria, maternal health and lack of 
infrastructure among others. Where appropriate, we seek to collaborate with local public health officials to support 
community-relevant health education and program development activities.
Cerro Verde operation, Peru.
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
 47
Policies & Programs 
•	 Safety and Health Policy — States our commitments, processes and 
management systems to meet our health and safety objectives. 
•	 Contractor Health and Safety Manual — Defines the expectations and 
requirements for contractors working at our operations. 
•	 Occupational Health and Safety Management System — Provides 
the framework for managing risks and compliance obligations and 
is certified in accordance with the ISO 45001 Health and Safety 
Management System, which requires third-party site-level verification 
of requirements.
Operational leadership teams own their safety performance and are supported 
by our vice president of health and safety and the corporate health and safety 
team, who develop and oversee our safety programs across the organization, 
supporting company-wide initiatives that recognize the values of our physical 
and psychological health and safety strategy, safety management systems and 
safety audit programs, and incident investigations. Executive management 
receives safety performance reports regularly, including reviews of high-risk, 
potential fatal and fatal incidents, and we present and discuss all fatal incident 
investigations with the CRC and the Board. The CRC provides input on the 
overall direction of FCX’s health and safety programs and reviews safety 
statistics, trends and incident investigation reports. In the event of a fatality, 
executive management and the CRC are notified immediately.
Our highest priority is the 
health, safety and well-being 
of our employees, contractors, 
suppliers and the communities 
where we operate.
 48
FATAL RISK MANAGEMENT PROGRAM 
Our culture of leading by example at all levels of the organization and our 
Safe Production Matters strategy underpin our Fatal Risk Management (FRM) 
program. The goal of our FRM program is to achieve zero workplace fatalities 
by strengthening preventative measures and raising awareness to these fatal 
risks. Fundamental to the FRM program is our effort to proactively identify 
potentially fatal risks in the field and apply the controls most critical for their 
avoidance. We continue to build on the program by identifying new potentially 
fatal risks common to some or all of our operations. For each identified risk, 
we communicate the necessary critical controls to address those risks across 
our operations. 
Leadership across the organization is engaged in efforts to continually 
improve our FRM program. In 2022, we began conducting maturity 
assessments to understand the degree to which each site has implemented 
their programs. While we expect some necessary site-by-site differences 
based on specific operating conditions, the maturity assessments help us 
understand and act on opportunities to drive impactful, focused improvements 
on fatality prevention. For example, in 2022, we learned that some fatal 
risk categories were too broadly defined. In response, we introduced 
subcategories to provide further granularity and relevance. 
We expect all employees and contractors to take ownership of their own 
safety, the safety of their co-workers and that of our host communities. Our 
frontline supervisors play a vital role in the success of FRM by discussing 
risks with their teams, raising awareness of the critical controls and helping 
employees to eliminate distractions and remain focused.
Leadership teams are responsible for setting safety expectations and 
promoting a culture where our workforce is empowered to work safely 
including using their stop-work authority in the event of a safety concern. We 
expect our workforce to stop work immediately if critical controls are missing 
or ineffective, or if work is not being performed safely. 
We regularly verify critical controls to assess their proper use and 
effectiveness. This helps ensure that controls are in place to mitigate high-
risk tasks. Critical control verifications also provide leading indicator data 
to strengthen our FRM program, as well as our overall health and safety 
management system. A critical control checklist is available on mobile devices 
to assist supervisors in real time in the field. 
The checklist helps to identify and capture variances in our critical controls 
and provides real-time information to support faster action plans to address 
identified gaps. In 2022, we enhanced our digital capabilities by rolling out 
Enterprise Work Space (EWS), an evolution of our existing mobile platform that 
adds additional functionality, including offline capabilities and quicker access 
to our FRM questions and safety forms. Our updated FRM field books also 
include QR codes for our teams to scan using their mobile devices to quickly 
access policies and additional information on critical controls in the field. 
To learn from any potentially fatal and/or fatal incidents ― and importantly 
to help prevent reoccurrence ― we conduct investigations that include a 
thorough root cause analysis using the TapRooT® system. The results are 
the basis for identifying, implementing and verifying corrective actions and 
working toward sustained improvement. Required follow-up includes a review 
of findings with senior management and site senior leadership who oversee 
and are responsible for implementing corrective actions. We also 
seek opportunities for company-wide education and improvements. 
RESPONDING TO POTENTIAL FATAL EVENTS
Potential fatal events are a subset of high-risk events where a fatal 
injury could have occurred, but fortunately no one was fatally injured. 
We believe these events present the most significant opportunities 
to learn and reduce the potential for future recurrence. Potential fatal 
events are internally identified based on three criteria: (1) whether 
there was a fatal risk/hazard, (2) whether individual(s) were exposed 
to the risk/hazard, and (3) whether there were missing or inadequate 
controls. In 2022, two potential fatal events occurred where the drivers 
of smaller vehicles either failed to radio haul trucks or relied on hand 
signals. Some of our haul trucks can be as tall as a two-story house 
– this massive size creates significant blind spots for the driver. As 
a result, advisories were distributed to all sites to remind drivers of 
the need for radio communication to avoid potentially fatal collisions. 
Additionally, we utilize left hand traffic which keeps the road edge 
visible to the driver and places drivers on opposite sides of the road.
 49
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
PERFORMANCE 
Considerable effort has been devoted to identifying hazards in the workplace, 
with the goal of mitigating them before individuals are harmed and analyzing 
events that do occur to identify missing or inadequate controls for the future. 
Clearly and consistently classifying incidents helps us to better identify 
contributing factors and ultimately, achieve a greater level of prevention. 
At the highest level, tracking of our company-wide Total Recordable Incident 
Rate (TRIR) indicator captures safety incidents that resulted in the occurrence 
of an injury (fatalities, lost-time incidents, restricted-duty incidents and medical 
treatments). In 2022, FCX employees and contractors worked 153 million hours 
and had 590 recordable injuries during the year, compared with 131 million 
hours and 455 recordable injuries in 2021. Our TRIR performance declined in 
2022 to 0.77 per 200,000 hours worked, and therefore, we missed our 2022 
target of 0.69. We are focused on improving our performance in 2023. 
We further classify all events according to our risk register based on the 
severity of the consequence, the likelihood of each event’s occurrence and 
the quality of the controls. In 2022, the percentage of high-risk events, which 
are defined as having the potential to result in permanent disability or fatality, 
remained flat at approximately 7%. A subset of high-risk events may also be 
classified as potential fatal events. 
The remaining 93% of incidents in 2022 were classified as low- or medium-risk 
incidents, which include incidents such as fractures, sprains and lacerations. 
While we seek to understand trends of all safety incidents to learn and take 
action as appropriate, we first focus our resources on high-risk events, and aim 
to appropriately manage the low- and medium-risk incidents. Through data 
analytics, we determined that in 2022, approximately 89% of all safety incidents 
involved employees with fewer than three years of experience; employees 
working under supervisors with fewer than three years of experience; and 
general laborers, trainees, and equipment and process operators. As a result, we 
are working to enhance our onboarding, training and retention efforts targeting 
these groups. We also continue to encourage leaders to be in the field, where 
they can interact with front-line employees and contractors. We have supported 
this from the top down by clearing calendars of non-essential meetings and 
emphasizing that field time comes first. Our focus in 2023 is to continue to 
advance safety education and training among these higher-risk groups.
We highly encourage the reporting of all incidents, even those that did 
not result in an injury or fatality, so learnings can be shared across the 
organization. In 2022, 897 near misses were reported.
HEALTH & SAFETY PERFORMANCE DATA2
2018 
2019 
2020 
2021 
2022 
Total Recordable Events
454
505
413
457
590
% High-Risk1
11%
11%
7%
7%
7%
Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)3
0.70
0.71
0.69
0.70
0.77
TRIR Annual Target
0.70
0.73
0.70
0.69
0.69
Number of Fatalities4
1
3
5
2
1
1.	 Our risk register defines "high-risk" events as incidents that have the potential to result in permanent disabilities or fatalities. 
2.	 Health and safety performance data include employees (full-time and part-time employees on a full-time equivalent basis) and contractors and exclude performance of divested and closed assets, unless otherwise noted. Rates are 
calculated per 200,000 hours worked, except where indicated. Metrics within this table are calculated based on employee and contractor reporting of injuries, illness and near misses.
3.	 TRIR = ((Fatalities + Lost-time Incidents + Restricted-duty Incidents + Medical Treatments) x 200,000) / Total Hours Worked. TRIR is equivalent to MSHA All-Incidence Rate (AIR). TRIR presented here may differ from reported TRIR in 
FCX's Form 10-K filings because data have been adjusted to exclude disposed assets for comparison purposes or for other stated reasons.
4.	 Two other fatalities occurred onsite in 2022; which, as of April 20, 2023, have not yet been classified by MSHA as independent medical episodes or work related. In FCX's 2022 Form 10-K published on February 15, 2023, FCX reported 
three onsite fatalities in 2022. The third fatality has since been classified as an independent medical episode.
44+44+28+28+28
20%
15%
10%
5%
0
2018 2019 2020 
2022
2021
TOTAL RECORDABLE EVENTS
(% HIGH-RISK1)
View more data in 
the Performance 
Data Section
 50
Fatal Events 
Regrettably, in 2022, one contractor at our Morenci site in Arizona was fatally 
injured after losing control of a vehicle after experiencing a brake failure. The 
vehicle operator was not wearing a seatbelt. Effective fatality prevention is 
paramount, and we are committed to learning from, and improving upon, our 
own experiences and those from across the industry to improve our fatality 
prevention programs. 
In response to this incident, we implemented corrective actions, including 
reiterating our expectations for safe vehicle condition and operation, the 
use of seatbelts, pre-shift vehicle inspections and the avoidance of certain 
road types by certain vehicle types. We are also assessing our contractor 
management processes. The assessment findings are expected to result 
in recommendations to strengthen our management and interaction with 
contractors to help ensure that contractors are meeting our requirements. 
Senior leadership at our sites and at the corporate level are actively engaged 
in the corrective action process, including performing periodic verifications 
for long-term sustainability of corrective actions. Leadership continues to 
communicate about the lessons learned from these events, such as specific 
actions teams can take to help mitigate fatal risks and prevent reoccurrence 
of incidents.
Following the death or serious injury of one of our employees, we initiate 
multiple steps of care after the initial emergency response and provide 
assistance for the employee’s family. When an employee is seriously 
injured, the company provides support to the employee and his or her 
family members during the employee’s medical treatment. In the case of 
a workplace fatality, we assist with funeral arrangements as appropriate. 
In addition, senior leadership reviews the evaluation of each incident 
to determine compensation for the family, irrespective of liability and in 
addition to local requirements. We encourage our contractors to approach 
these types of incidents in a similar manner, and are committed to working 
with our business partners to address and cooperate in providing remedy 
when our activities cause or contribute to adverse impacts.
MIAMI ROD MILL ACHIEVES SAFETY MILESTONE 
In 2022, the Miami Rod Mill celebrated four years since the site’s last 
work-time injury. This is a particularly significant milestone because 
the site was averaging one recordable injury every 100 days in 2010. 
The mill credits its safety record to its people and the strong culture 
of long-tenured employees supporting new hires to learn their roles. 
Leaders at the mill also spend as much time as possible on the floor 
working with and listening to operators and technicians to build and 
sustain a culture of safety.
Miami operation, Arizona.
 51
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
KNOWN COMMUNITY & INDIRECT FATALITIES 
In an effort to develop a more holistic understanding of the health and safety 
impacts of our mining activities both within and beyond our boundaries and 
operational control, we began disclosing known community and indirect 
fatalities in 2020. Our ultimate goal is to positively contribute to the improved 
health and safety of the people in our host communities by supporting their 
efforts to avoid reoccurrence of these incidents. 
There is no standard definition of known community and indirect fatalities. 
For purposes of our reporting, we have included non-occupational related 
fatalities (excluding illnesses and natural causes) that occurred within our area 
of operations, fatalities related to security events in our communities, fatalities 
associated with mining activities that occurred offsite and outside of our 
control within the communities where we operate (such as transportation of 
goods and services), and fatalities associated with illegal artisanal mining. 
During 2022, there were 11 known community and indirect fatalities, 
including four offsite transportation-related fatalities (two near our 
Arizona operations and two near the Manyar smelter project) and seven 
fatalities associated with illegal artisanal mining panners at PT-FI seeking 
unrecovered gold in our controlled riverine tailings system. Additionally, 
two other workforce fatalities occurred onsite at our Morenci operations in 
2022, which, as of April 20, 2023, have not yet been classified by MSHA as 
independent medical episodes or work-related. More information on how 
we are working to help build a multi-stakeholder artisanal mining strategy 
can be found in the Human Rights section of this report.
For more information on our management of security events and our 
implementation of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, 
please refer to the Human Rights section of this report and our annual 
report to the Voluntary Principles Plenary available on our website.
CRISIS MANAGEMENT PLANNING 
All FCX sites are required to have a crisis management plan in place 
to effectively respond and support the safety of all people who could 
potentially be impacted by a crisis event at or near one of our sites. The 
plan guides our operational approach to preparing for, responding to 
and recovering from potential emergencies or crises. Over the years, our 
sites have utilized these plans when emergencies and crises occur, such 
as recent wildfires near Bagdad and Miami in Arizona, enabling reduced 
impacts to the site and local community.
Our PT-FI operations in Indonesia have a mature and robust crisis 
management program and, for many years, PT-FI’s emergency response 
team has conducted periodic tests of its crisis management plan and is often 
recognized nationally. Most recently, in February 2023, PT-FI’s emergency 
response team responded to flooding and landslides which caused damage to 
infrastructure near the milling complex at our Grasberg operations. 
Starting in 2021, we worked with a third-party consultant to incorporate 
the principles of the Tailings Standard into our existing crisis management 
guidelines and site-specific emergency response plans for the Americas. Our 
updated guidelines and site-specific emergency action plans are aligned with 
industry best practice and outline expectations for our workforce, including 
how they should engage with emergency responders and community 
members impacted by crisis events related to our operations. Each site is 
required to periodically test and drill their crisis management plans and sites 
with TSFs must conduct simulations of tailings emergency response plans 
based on the site's TSF consequence classification (based on credible failure 
modes). The simulations may include partnering with emergency response 
and preparedness organizations, local government leaders and engaging with 
host community members.
Starting in 2022 and continuing in 2023, our sites are working to update 
their site-specific plans in alignment with the updated crisis management 
guidelines, are performing internal tests of the updated plans and are 
engaging external stakeholders, where applicable. We plan to begin testing 
our emergency response plans in 2023 with relevant stakeholders and 
perform site-based tailings emergency response simulations beginning with 
our sites that have higher risk TSFs based on consequence classification. To 
learn more about the implementation of the Global Tailings Standard, please 
see the Tailings Management section.
Our updated crisis management guidelines 
are aligned with industry best practice and 
outline the expectations for our workforce.
 52
COMMUNITY HEALTH AND WELL-BEING
Positively contributing to community health and well-being in our host 
communities is an extension of our core value and approach to safety and 
aligns to our focus on supporting community resilience and economic 
opportunity. In many cases, our workforce and our host communities are one 
in the same. By supporting the fundamental health needs of our workforce 
and their families, we believe that we are also contributing to the safety of our 
workforce. Each of our host communities have different community health 
profiles in terms of maturity of the healthcare system and levels and types of 
background disease. We seek to understand these conditions and work in 
partnership with our host communities to address regional health problems. 
Where appropriate, and where significant community health risks exist, we 
may engage local public health officials and other partners to participate 
in health education campaigns, including campaigns around malaria, 
malnutrition and more recently, COVID-19. We rely on ongoing engagement 
with our communities to understand their needs, including those related to 
health and wellness. 
In the U.S., several of our rural host communities have identified a lack of 
health care resources from primary care to behavioral health and imaging. In 
2020, the Freeport-McMoRan Foundation and Climax Molybdenum Company 
made a $500,000 commitment to help establish the Clear Creek County 
Health and Wellness Center in Idaho Springs, CO to bring easily accessible 
and locally available healthcare to the community and surrounding counties. 
This integrated facility houses Public Health and Human Services, which 
include primary medical care and mental and behavioral health services. In 
2017, we helped to establish the School Based Health Center in Lake County 
School District (Colorado) and continued our support for this important 
service by helping to fund a full-time behavioral health counselor in 2022. 
Access to behavioral health services is essential to student success and well-
being both in support of crisis intervention as well as early intervention before 
crisis occurs. In 2022, we also supported the Copper Queen Community 
Hospital in their efforts to improve women's health in southeast Cochise 
County, AZ by purchasing a new mammography unit for the Bisbee Campus. 
The new unit will enable the hospital to complete nearly 800 more screenings 
and diagnostic mammograms a year and will reduce wait times by weeks and, 
in some cases, months. 
At our Cerro Verde operation in Peru, we supports 
programs focused on health and well-being for 
the benefit of community members in Arequipa.
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
 53
In the Arequipa region of Peru, we supported health campaigns in 
2022 to promote awareness about the importance of preventive health 
care with medical professionals specializing in pediatrics, dermatology, 
gastroenterology, traumatology, rheumatology and gynecology, among 
others. We also supported health fairs to inform the population about the 
importance of oral health, women’s healthcare, healthy eating, physical 
exercise, hand washing and psychological well-being. Both projects were 
carried out in the five districts of the area of influence of Cerro Verde, 
benefiting more than 3,000 residents. We also worked with local school 
districts to develop the “Psychology: Support for the Family” Program 
with the aim of providing guidance, support and therapeutic resources 
to students, parents and teachers. This project reached more than 2,259 
people in 2022.
In Chile, we conducted two health campaigns in late 2022 and early 
2023 to educate the community on how to prevent respiratory illnesses. 
These campaigns were a result of our analysis following the El Abra HRIA 
completed in 2021. We also supported efforts during the year to reduce 
the amount of time patients wait to be seen by medical providers in the 
public healthcare system.
SUPPORTING EMPLOYEE WELL-BEING IN THE U.S. 
In 2022, we made important investments to support our employees' 
overall health and wellness, which extend beyond their time on the 
job. Notably, for our employees in the U.S., we introduced an enhanced 
employee assistance program to provide more options for personalized 
care and life resources, including expanded mental health care 
benefits. The expanded offerings include eight free therapy sessions 
for every member of an employee’s household, personalized care 
plans and ongoing support, coaching to set and reach goals, wellness 
exercises to relieve stress and improve sleep, along with experts to 
assist our employees in connecting to helpful resources for life events, 
such as legal and financial services and child and elder care. Our work 
to enhance employee mental health and well-being at all our sites 
continues globally.
 54
PT-FI’S COMMITMENT TO COMMUNITY HEALTH 
PT-FI recognizes environmental and community health as an operational 
imperative and is dedicated to monitoring, managing and mitigating potential 
environmental and community health impacts from exposure to its tailings 
and other mine waste. To that end, PT-FI has been undertaking a multi-year 
human health assessment (HHA) with support from various third parties, 
including the Mimika local health authority (LHA). The HHA commenced 
with a comprehensive human health risk assessment and continued with 
broad-based community health surveys conducted by the LHA with PT-FI’s 
assistance as outlined in more detail on the following pages. 
Monitoring our Impacts to Human Health 
In addition to its ongoing comprehensive environmental monitoring and analysis 
program, PT-FI has previously conducted human health risk assessments to 
evaluate the potential health risks associated with possible exposure to tailings 
and other mining waste constituents around our Grasberg operations. Risk 
assessments are designed to identify potential exposure pathways that should 
be further evaluated with additional data collection and research. The risk 
assessments help ensure that PT-FI’s management programs are effective and its 
monitoring efforts are robust, as well as identify areas for potential improvement. 
Most recently, Gradient Corporation, a third-party environmental and risk 
sciences firm, with support from PT-FI, conducted a risk assessment in 
accordance with U.S. EPA guidelines for human health risk assessments. 
Gradient identified and assessed the key potential exposure pathways and metal 
concentrations in various environmental media taken from locations across the 
Highlands, Lowlands and estuary areas. No significant elevated human health 
risks were calculated from exposure to tailings system constituents across the 
exposure pathways examined, with the exception of a clam species, if frequently 
consumed in high amounts. All other plants, animals and fish in and around the 
tailings system remain safe for human consumption based on the consumption 
data and exposure pathways assessed in the risk assessment. 
The findings identified a clam species collected from certain areas in the estuary 
accumulated elevated levels of lead from sediments due to historical stormwater 
run-off from the Wanagon overburden stockpile adjacent to the Grasberg open 
pit in the Highlands. The underlying overburden erosion and run-off are being 
managed and controlled, and PT-FI has not experienced similar erosion issues 
at the Wanagon overburden stockpile since 2018. To mitigate the possibility of 
erosion recurrence, PT-FI is continuing to cap the existing overburden stockpile 
with limestone and constructing additional levees and drainage channels 
to move stormwater away from the overburden stockpile. PT-FI continues to 
actively monitor this matter. PT-FI will also continue to monitor for any potential 
impacts resulting from past erosion. As part of this effort, PT-FI has been 
working with the LHA to further investigate and collect additional data on 
potential impacts relating to human consumption of the identified clam species. 
Community health outreach near our 
Grasberg minerals district, Indonesia.
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
 55
Learnings from Recent Community Health Surveys 
Starting in late 2021 and continuing into 2022, the LHA undertook various regency-
wide community health surveys to acquire the latest information on community 
health and to inform and devise an effective strategy for health development in 
alignment with the goals of the Mimika government’s regional development plan. 
The surveys were wide-reaching and examined areas such as environmental 
health, access to health services, maternal health and nutrition and communicable 
diseases. The surveys also allowed for lead and other metal testing in the local 
population, including blood and urine sampling, and deeper analysis into the food 
supply through a market basket study. This testing confirmed the risk assessment 
calculations predicting no significant elevated human health risks from exposure 
to tailings system constituents across the pathways examined, except for a clam 
species. It also helped to inform the broader community health program.
The LHA, with assistance from PT-FI, worked with national medical experts 
at Udayana University supported by International SOS, and with experts from 
the University of Indonesia to collect and analyze the biometric data and 
environmental sampling from across the community. 
The surveys were carried out in 12 villages selected based on their distance from 
PT-FI’s mining operations, including the two Lowland villages identified through 
the human health risk assessment for potential lead exposures associated with 
human consumption of a clam species, if frequently consumed in high amounts, 
found in certain areas in the estuary. Of these 12 villages surveyed, six were 
close to or within PT-FI’s area of operations and six were not. This approach 
provided the necessary geographic spread to measure potential impact from 
metals associated with PT-FI’s operations and also provided key insights into 
non-mining related exposures. 
The results of the surveys indicated no correlation between constituents in 
PT-FI's tailings management system and measured metals in blood. In addition, 
the initial survey results, which included intravenous blood testing, showed 
that the average of various metal levels were within the range found in similar 
studies of Indonesia and Southeast Asian populations. The results of the surveys 
did, however, identify critical public health interventions needed in the short-
term in Mimika, specifically malaria prevention, clean water, maternal health, 
and nutrition. The LHA has stated that these interventions require strategic and 
sustained programs to meaningfully improve community health in the region. 
Partnering on Community Health 
In response to the results of the health surveys, PT-FI and the LHA have 
agreed to collaborate on longer-term public health challenges, with the local 
government leading the efforts. The priority areas for this collaboration in 
Mimika include the following: 
•	 Malaria Control and Prevention Program: malaria is a major health 
challenge in Mimika and efforts will support achieving the 2030 National 
Malaria Elimination goals.
•	 Clean Water and Sanitation Facilities: activities will focus on providing 
the needed infrastructure to ensure access to clean water and improved 
sanitation. 
•	 Maternal Health: the program will focus on improving nutrition and 
health access for pregnant women.
•	 Malnutrition Interventions: the program will address stunting and 
improving nutrition among children.
Though not identified as a critical health priority by the LHA, PT-FI also 
plans to work with the LHA to identify and raise awareness of potential lead 
and other metal exposures and support in-village observations to further 
understand community health behaviors more broadly. PT-FI also plans to 
continue to educate communities on the potential behaviors and activities 
that can contribute to increased exposure to metals in their environment. 
Future blood testing and community health surveys may be used to assess 
the effectiveness of the LHA’s priority programs and PT-FI’s educational efforts 
regarding potential metal exposures.
We believe that PT-FI’s cooperation with the LHA demonstrates the 
importance of public-private partnerships on critical areas such as community 
health. By using operational insights, PT-FI has been able to help inform 
greater public health efforts and support long-term health intervention 
programs that will benefit the region. 
In addition to collaboration with the LHA, PT-FI continues to work closely 
with the local Mimika government to support the provision of health services 
in the region as it has done for many years. In coordination with the local 
authorities and non-governmental organizations, PT-FI and International SOS 
will continue to implement programs for health education, prevention, and the 
treatment of diseases within and around our operational area. 
 56
WORKFORCE
WHY IT MATTERS 
An inclusive and diverse workforce with a broad range of experience, 
knowledge, background, culture and heritage drives innovation, enhances 
operational performance and improves relationships with stakeholders. 
Mining, by its cyclical nature, presents challenges to cultivating and 
maintaining a skilled, stable and diverse workforce. Commodity price 
fluctuations, geographically remote operations, shifting local demographics, 
and technological advances that are changing the way we work and compete 
for talent ― from both inside and outside the industry ― present challenges to 
hiring and retention. 
OUR APPROACH 
FCX believes our people are the foundation of our success and a competitive 
advantage. Our ability to successfully recruit, retain, develop and advance 
talented employees is paramount. We focus on attracting and retaining 
talented people by offering quality employment with fair and equitable 
compensation and benefits, as well as with opportunities for professional 
development and advancement. We prioritize a highly engaged, agile 
workforce and, in addition to safety, we aim to support the overall health 
and well-being of our workforce by providing access to health and wellness 
resources, and offering opportunities for flexible work schedules, where 
practicable, among other efforts. 
FCX operates in regions of varying ethnic, religious and cultural backgrounds, 
where we often are the largest employer in our host communities. As such, we 
are committed to fostering a company culture that is not only safety-focused, 
respectful, and inclusive, but also that is representative of the communities 
where we operate. 
We seek to design our programs and initiatives with standardized processes and 
priorities while being adaptable to site specific or situational circumstances. Site-
based employees implement customized programs to meet their site-specific 
needs. We believe each site’s leadership team knows their site best and how to 
successfully apply our human capital management programs.
Our core policies ― including our PBC, Human Rights Policy, Business Partner 
Code of Conduct, Inclusion and Diversity Policy and Social Performance Policy ― 
together outline our company culture, our commitment to doing what is right, and 
the expectations we have of all employees and contractors. These global policies 
are publicly available on our website and translated into the local languages of 
the regions where we operate. We fully expect our workforce to understand and 
comply with our trainings, policies, procedures, local cultures and laws.
PERFORMANCE 
At the end of 2022, FCX’s global workforce totaled approximately 25,600 
employees and 48,900 contractors. Our overall workforce headcounts 
increased from the prior year, largely because more contractors worked at 
certain of our Arizona sites during the year. Beginning in 2021 and during 
2022, we experienced an increasingly competitive labor market and labor 
shortages at our North America operations. As a result of this labor shortage, 
we hired more contract workers in 2022. The full-time employee turnover rate 
at our North America operations has averaged 14% in recent years compared 
to the 9% average turnover rate across the company. To learn more, see the 
Recruiting, Retaining, Developing & Advancing our Workforce section.
View more data in 
the Performance 
Data Section
Team member at our Grasberg 
minerals district, Indonesia.
 57
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
LABOR RELATIONS
We recognize and respect the rights of our employees, including rights to 
freedom of association and collective bargaining, without interference or 
fear of retaliation. We are committed to prohibiting forced, compulsory and 
child labor and human trafficking. We do not tolerate any form of harassment 
or discrimination against individuals based on race, color, sex, religion, 
national origin, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, disability, 
age, veteran’s status or any other characteristic protected by applicable law. 
Our global employee assistance programs provide support and a confidential 
reporting mechanism to employees who believe they have experienced 
harassment, bullying or discrimination in the workplace. 
During 2022, we continued to maintain positive and collaborative relationships 
with unions representing our employees, working cooperatively with 12 unions in 
six locations worldwide. Approximately 30% of our global employee population 
is covered by collective labor agreements (CLAs). In 2022, we successfully 
completed union negotiations at El Abra on a new three-year CLA, at PT-FI with 
all three unions on a new two-year CLA, and at Rotterdam for an extension of the 
current CLA through September 2023. The CLA between Atlantic Copper and its 
three unions expired in December 2022, but has been indefinitely extended and 
remains active by mutual agreement until the new agreement is negotiated.
Our North America workforce is not represented by unions. Our hourly 
employees in North America elect to work directly with company 
management using our Guiding Principles agreement outlining how we 
work together to achieve our collective goals within the values of the 
company. The Guiding Principles agreement is periodically updated with 
input from employees and includes an open-door policy and a problem-
solving procedure that have been established to provide a fair and impartial 
resolution of concerns about employment. Our global workforce, including 
North America, is encouraged to report grievance-related information to their 
supervisor, local Human Resources representative, or our global compliance 
department as described in the Business Conduct & Policies section.
We recognize that prolonged strikes and other work stoppages can adversely 
affect our business, our workforce and regional stakeholders. As such, we 
seek to openly engage with our employees directly, and where applicable, our 
union leadership to negotiate and uphold labor agreements. In 2022, there 
were no strikes or lockouts at any of our operations. 
48+25+23+4+J
GLOBAL WORKFORCE
(As of December 31, 2022)
North America	
48%
South America	
25% 
Indonesia	
23%
Europe/Other	
4%
EMPLOYEES
(Approximately 25,600) 48+34+13+5+J
Indonesia	
48%
North America	
34%
South America	
13%
Europe/Other	
5%
CONTRACTORS
(Approximately 48,900)
80%
60%
40%
20%
0%
EMPLOYEES UNDER COLLECTIVE 
LABOR AGREEMENTS IN 2022
47+60+67+0
30% FCX 
Global Average
Indonesia
Europe/Other
South America
North America1 
 FCX Global
1.	 In North America, our hourly employees continue to elect to work directly with 
company management rather than through union representation using our 
Guiding Principles contract, which adds value to the workforce and the company.
View more data in 
the Performance 
Data Section
 58
RECRUITING, RETAINING, DEVELOPING & ADVANCING OUR WORKFORCE 
The labor market tightened and competition for people continued to increase 
in the U.S. and other markets where we operate during 2022. Attracting and 
retaining employees with the technical expertise required to achieve our 
strategic objectives and competing for skilled labor in the current environment 
are significant challenges. 
We are working to respond to these developments by enhancing our focus 
on engagement and retention efforts globally, and by further evolving our 
people management resources (including our leadership competency 
model) to support our existing workforce now and into the future. We believe 
our front-line leaders are critical to employee development, advancement 
and retention efforts, and our priority is to ensure our employees, and 
especially our front-line leaders, are well-equipped and fully supported in 
order to lead their teams to safely and responsibly deliver on our strategy.
Our people management processes are intended to support our employees 
from onboarding through the entirety of the employee's career journey. In 
2022, we updated our leadership competency model and in doing so, we 
challenged ourselves to look at leadership through a variety of lenses. The 
aim of this process was to focus and prioritize the core competencies needed 
for our leaders to be successful today and to consider and integrate the 
skills we believe will be required for successful leadership in the future. Our 
updated leadership competency model, which is now globally applicable and 
more holistically integrates inclusion and diversity priorities, focuses on core 
competencies across four categories: leading yourself, leading others, driving 
strategies and driving results.
FCX LEADERSHIP COMPETENCY MODEL
LEAD PEOPLE
Create a safe environment and 
high-functioning empowered 
team where people understand 
their value and do their best work
DRIVE BUSINESS
Foster success today and strategize 
to ensure future sustainability 
and growth in an ever-changing 
business environment
FCX LEADERS
Build the Business
Lead Yourself
Drive Strategy
Lead Others
Drive Results
 59
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
To support our updated leadership competency model, in 2022, our talent 
management team collaborated globally across our sites to develop targeted 
learning and development goals. From this work, we plan to increase the 
catalog of leadership training available to our global employees across 
all leadership levels, which will be made available in local languages. 
For example, the underground team at PT-FI determined the skills and 
competencies their leaders need to successfully drive their key priorities, 
from which the talent management team is tailoring a specific leadership 
curriculum. Likewise, in early 2023, we implemented a new learning 
management system specifically designed to focus on the topics relevant to 
our employees and leadership at our North America operations. 
We have a number of learning modules that are dedicated specifically to 
supporting and enhancing the leadership and management skills of our 
frontline supervisors, which we also are working to enhance. These include 
our “Welcome to Supervision” classes in North America and our “Coaching for 
Success” webinars available at our sites in North America and Indonesia. In 
2023, we plan to expand the knowledge and skills covered in these courses, 
and we are working to offer these programs in the other regions where we 
operate. In 2022, we also continued to expand our “Leading with Purpose” 
series beyond our Americas sites into Europe. As of year-end 2022, we had 
reached approximately 450 leaders with our “Leading with Purpose” series, 
which uses adult learning theory to teach critical leadership skills and to 
challenge leaders to consider viewing leadership in new ways. 
Employee engagement and feedback are core components of our talent 
management program. Surveys are conducted at various points in the 
employment journey. In 2022, we conducted brief engagement surveys for 
our employees at our North America sites, and our talent management team 
analyzed the engagement results to identify and determine actionable next 
steps. We also began to regularly request more specific feedback on company 
culture during other stages of the employee experience, including through 
onboarding and exit surveys. In 2023, we plan to collect data from employees 
in other areas of the company to better understand the employee experience. 
Looking ahead, we expect our talent management processes and 
corresponding training and development programs will continue to mature 
and evolve in line with our commitment to continuous improvement. We 
recognize the ongoing training and development of our employees is critical 
to helping ensure we have the right people with the necessary skills to safely 
deliver on our business strategy ― today and well into the future.
Ongoing training and development of our 
employees is critical to helping ensure we have the 
right people with the necessary skills to safely and 
responsibly deliver on our business strategy.
New trainees at the Manyar 
smelter project, Indonesia.
 60
INCLUSION & DIVERSITY 
As a global organization operating in diverse parts of the world, we recognize 
the importance of inclusion and diversity as a company priority. FCX’s 
Inclusion and Diversity Policy is applicable to our global workforce, and we 
have a cross-functional inclusion and diversity leadership team to help guide 
the global strategy and direction of our programs. Recognizing that inclusion 
and diversity differs across cultures, we have formalized regional teams and 
dedicated site leaders to help identify and address local challenges and 
opportunities unique to each site and culture. In 2022, as part of our updated 
leadership competency model, we also integrated several inclusion and 
diversity priorities into our core competencies including: valuing diversity, 
creating an inclusive culture, and supporting and enhancing psychological 
safety in the workplace. During 2022, we continued to train leaders across 
our global operations to help support them in fostering an inclusive and 
diverse environment.
INDUSTRY COLLABORATION ON DIVERSITY, 
EQUITY AND INCLUSION PRIORITIES
FCX participated in an ICMM Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) working 
group during 2022, to review ICMM’s performance expectations as part 
of a broader industry effort on workforce culture. The working group 
identified a need to enhance industry actions to eliminate all forms of 
harassment and unfair discrimination from the workplace, take proactive 
steps to achieve gender equality and the open participation of all peoples, 
and reinforce the importance of psychological safety in an effort to achieve 
zero harm. Several efforts are underway to enable FCX to conform to these 
expectations within the two-year required time frame for implementation, 
including but not limited to: incorporating psychological safety through a 
focus on mental health and well-being, enhancing talent management and 
training to build capacity across our workforce, seeking feedback through 
employee surveys and grievance process, and deepening of our human 
rights efforts globally. 
49+51+J
NORTH
AMERICA
97+3+J
INDONESIA 23+64+13+J
GLOBAL
 BY AGE
99+1+J
GLOBAL 
BY NATIONALITY
49% Racially or 
Ethnically Diverse
97% Indonesian 
Nationals
99% In-Country 
Nationals
23% 
Over 50
13% 
Under 30
41% Indigenous 
Papuan
1%
Expatriates
64% Between
30-50
GLOBAL EMPLOYEES (as of December 31, 2022)
Note: Figures exclude contractors
View more data in 
the Performance 
Data Section
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
 61
Diversity & Local Hiring 
FCX is committed to fostering a culture that is inclusive and representative 
of the communities where we operate. The vast majority of our employees 
are from the countries where we operate. One of our greatest opportunities 
to contribute to our host communities is through local employment and 
capacity building. Local employment directly contributes to the economic 
and social development of surrounding communities. Moreover, hiring locally 
incorporates local cultures and knowledge into our company, which can 
strengthen our programs and enhance global inclusion and diversity through 
increased awareness, understanding and perspectives. We believe varied 
workforce perspectives throughout our organization make us stronger. 
We are often the largest employer in our local communities and hiring 
locally is a commitment we make to the host communities surrounding our 
operations and to our host countries. It is from this context that we must 
tailor our approach to inclusion and diversity — by all definitions — across 
our global business. We aspire for the diversity of our global workforce to 
reflect the diversity of the communities where we operate. In North America, 
49% of our employee base has self-identified as racially or ethnically diverse, 
including 41% Hispanic representation and 4% Native Americans/Alaskan 
Natives. In Indonesia, 97% of our employee base is Indonesian, including 41% 
at PT-FI who are Indigenous Papuan. 
We retain expatriate expertise for managerial and technical roles when we 
determine it is not available in local communities. Expatriates and inpatriates 
receive cultural training upon their arrival to a new location. On average, 
expatriates represent 1% of people employed at our operations globally. 
As we move forward, we believe enhanced communication, collaboration, 
job opportunities and talent sharing across our sites will help us leverage 
the unique perspectives and local knowledge within our organization. We 
plan to seek ways to encourage and promote job opportunities for our 
Indigenous communities and other underrepresented minority groups across 
the organization, and we plan to focus on engaging with our contractors to 
encourage them to employ diverse and representative candidates. 
STRENGTHENING DIVERSITY IN OUR WORKFORCE PIPELINE
FCX continues to advance efforts to strengthen inclusion and diversity in 
our workforce and people development pipeline. In 2022, we leveraged 
a new recruiting platform, which has the ability to source a larger, more 
diverse candidate pool. This platform allows us to connect with students 
and alumni at 180 colleges and universities dedicated to serving students 
from underrepresented groups. These colleges and universities have more 
than 10 million active students, including 5 million women, and 2.4 million 
Black or African American and Hispanic candidates. Further, in 2022, FCX 
engaged with a non-profit that assists in creating career pathways for 
ethnically diverse students as well as helps employers foster diverse and 
inclusive workplaces. FCX continues to leverage recruitment tools to attract 
veterans, including a digital tool on our Careers page that helps veterans 
find jobs at FCX that align with their skills and capabilities. 
Bagdad operation, Arizona. 
 62
Gender Diversity 
Gender diversity continues to be an important focus for FCX in recognition 
that progressing an inclusive workplace culture that extends beyond our 
operational boundaries and into our communities is a critical driver for 
recruiting, retaining, developing and advancing top female talent. We are 
proactively working to retain and attract women to work at FCX, and we 
have been working to promote an inclusive culture and to support well-
being initiatives, including flexible work hours at some sites, increasing 
opportunities for remote work where feasible, and access to health and 
wellness resources. 
Our gender representation goal in 2022 remained 15% women in our total 
global employee base. In 2022, we continued to make progress against this 
target. At year-end, women represented 14.2% of our global employees, up 
from 13.4% in 2021. The percentage of women in executive management 
roles increased slightly in 2022 versus 2021. At year-end 2022, women 
represented 36.4% of our Board, which subsequently increased to 41.7% 
women representation in February 2023 following the appointment of 
Kathleen L. Quirk. 
Representation of women in our employee base ranges widely across our 
global operations ― in North America, 20% of our employees are women, 
yet in Peru and Indonesia, only 6% and 8%, respectively, of our employees 
are women. FCX’s global full-time employee turnover rate was 9%, with 
women leaving our workforce at a slightly higher rate than men. Women 
represented 23% of new global full-time hires during the year. 
Part of our ongoing work moving forward is to better understand the 
specific regional contexts and drivers behind the lower numbers of women 
in certain regions and to find ways to support inclusivity through capacity 
building, resilience, skills, knowledge and career development opportunities 
― as well as finding additional ways to support our people outside the 
workplace. While inclusion and diversity issues take time to identify and 
resolve, we are focused on addressing these challenges, increasing overall 
employee engagement and satisfaction, and finding ways to retain, develop 
and advance our female employees.
WOMEN IN LEADERSHIP POSITIONS (%)
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
Board of Directors1
33.3%
33.3%
33.3%
36.4%
36.4%
Executive 
Management
14.8%
13.8%
19.4%
21.2%
22.2%
Management2
11.9%
12.4%
12.4%
12.1%
12.2%
Non-Management2
12.8%
13.3%
12.7%
13.6%
14.4%
Total Employees
12.7%
13.2%
12.6%
13.4%
14.2%
1.	 Figures are as of year-end so many differ from those reported in our annual proxy statements which reflect 
director nominees as of the record date for our annual meeting of shareholders for the respective year. 
Following the appointment of Kathleen L. Quirk to FCX’s Board of Directors in February 2023, we now have 
41.7% women representation on our Board.
2. 	 Amounts have been adjusted since prior year reporting following improvements to our data collection 
processes.
Note: Employee figures exclude contractors and are as of year-end. 
20%
15%
10%
5%
095+68+30+36+83
2022 WOMEN EMPLOYED BY FCX LOCATION (%)
North America
Chile
Peru
Indonesia
Europe/Other
14% FCX Global Average
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
 63
FAIR & EQUAL REMUNERATION PRACTICES 
We are committed to respecting the rights of our workforce, including paying 
fair and equal wages. Our approach to compensation and benefits is market-
based, competitive and informed by annual benchmarking and analysis. This 
includes equal pay for equal work and compensation levels that support the 
acquisition of the goods and services necessary for an average-size family to 
meet their basic needs in the geographic locations where we operate — often 
referred to as a living wage. 
We are committed to providing equal pay for equal work regardless of gender, 
race, ethnicity or any other characteristic protected by applicable law. We 
periodically conduct internal compensation reviews to identify possible pay 
gaps, which cannot be explained through performance, distribution of jobs, 
experience, time in role and other legitimate business-related factors. To 
further our commitment to provide equal pay for equal work and to support 
our global inclusion and diversity efforts, in recent years we engaged a third-
party compensation consultant, Mercer, to evaluate our gender pay equity 
practices across our global operations. Our initial review was conducted in 
2021 and included a robust statistical analysis and detailed compensation 
reviews of our global employee base. In 2022, we worked with Mercer to 
conduct an updated analysis of base pay, which showed a gender pay equity 
gap ratio of more than 0.995 (female employee) to 1 (male employee). We 
also analyzed total compensation and concluded global female and male 
employees are in statistical parity regarding total compensation.
In addition to the gender pay equity analysis, Mercer has also conducted 
similar analyses over the last two years to review race and ethnicity pay equity 
across our U.S. operations. In the U.S., the 2022 race and ethnicity pay analysis 
showed a pay ratio of more than 0.995 (Hispanic employee) to 1 (white 
employee). There was no statistically significant pay gap for other non-white 
employee ethnicity group in U.S. as compared to White employees. We also 
analyzed total compensation and concluded all ethnicities in the U.S. are in 
statistical parity regarding total compensation.
Following the results of each pay analysis, we conducted internal reviews 
for the pay gaps identified, considered performance, distribution of jobs, 
experience, time in role and other legitimate business-related factors and, 
where appropriate, applied upward pay adjustments. These efforts have been 
successful in helping us to improve pay gaps between 2021 and 2022. 
In 2022, we continued working with BSR, a global sustainability nonprofit, on 
a living wage assessment for both full-time and part-time employees. BSR 
provided expertise as well as living wage benchmark rates for each of FCX’s 
locations globally, including operating sites, office locations, remediation and 
discontinued operations, and smaller processing locations. BSR’s living wage 
benchmark rates exceed the minimum wages in all 42 locations. Compensation 
for all applicable employees was reviewed and meets BSR's living wage 
benchmarks for each respective location. In 2022, we completed a pilot living 
wage assessment of on-site contractors, with input and guidance from BSR, 
with a view to extending our living wage commitment to our on-site contractors 
in the future. We are working with BSR to evaluate next steps in 2023. 
Moving forward, and in recognition of evolving pay landscapes, we plan to 
conduct evaluations of our pay equity practices and living wage assessments 
on a periodic basis and integrate key learnings into our compensation 
processes. We will seek to integrate the results into our annual compensation 
review process across our global operations. 
We are committed to providing 
equal pay for equal work regardless of 
gender, race, ethnicity or any other 
characteristic protected by applicable law.
 64
We work in partnership with our host communities and 
Indigenous Peoples to earn and maintain their trust and to 
contribute to long-term shared value and resilience.
COMMUNITIES & INDIGENOUS PEOPLES
WHY IT MATTERS 
The relationship between a mining company and its neighboring communities is dynamic. Mining is an 
inherently cyclical business with production levels fluctuating over time. While copper and molybdenum 
mines typically have long lives, mining resources ultimately are finite. Increasing automation, technical 
innovation and shifts in the global economy are changing mining processes and labor requirements. 
Furthermore, many Indigenous Peoples have historically occupied or have ancestral connections to lands 
on or near mining operations. In recent years, some Native American tribes have become more vocal in 
their objections to mining companies as they seek to protect the environmental and cultural resources 
associated with their current and ancestral lands. Mining companies must work collaboratively with host 
communities, including Indigenous Peoples, to build and maintain trust and to support them in developing 
the necessary skills and capabilities to adapt, navigate transitions and succeed over the long term. This 
ongoing collaboration is critical to maintaining a social license to operate. 
OUR APPROACH 
FCX strives to work in partnership with our host communities and Indigenous Peoples to earn and 
maintain their trust and deliver shared value. We not only seek to avoid, minimize and mitigate adverse 
impacts from our operations, but we also aim to provide long-lasting benefits to our neighbors. We 
work in partnership with our host communities — which in many cases includes Indigenous Peoples — 
to help increase resilience and well-being at the individual and community levels to help people thrive 
over the life of our mines and beyond.
Proactive, ongoing engagements and constructive dialogue are foundational to our approach. This is how 
we understand actual, potential and perceived impacts on our host communities, build trust, and mutually 
identify the most relevant social investments and development priorities to address our impacts and 
support enhanced resilience. We also work actively through engagement and capacity-building activities 
to support host communities in maximizing the social and economic benefits of our operations. 
While we tailor our programs to site-specific dynamics of the operation and host communities, our 
overarching objectives in partnership with local stakeholders remain consistent: (1) working to build 
enduring trust, (2) avoid, minimize or mitigate adverse impacts from our operations, (3) maximize the 
positive benefits, and (4) support our communities in building the resilience necessary to thrive and 
adapt during and beyond the life of our mines.
Farmers near our Cerro Verde operation in 
Peru practice sustainable agriculture and are 
supported by the company through a variety of 
business development and training programs. 
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
 65
Policies & Programs 
•	 Social Performance Policy – This policy outlines our commitment to 
engage and collaborate with local communities in an effort to avoid, 
minimize, mitigate and remedy adverse impacts while maximizing 
opportunities to deliver value from our presence. It also includes our 
commitment to work towards achieving the Free, Prior and Informed 
Consent (FPIC) of affected Indigenous communities. 
•	 Social Performance Management System (SPMS) – This system 
operationalizes our policy commitments and documents and 
institutionalizes the actions, behaviors and expectations for how we 
interact with our communities, including Indigenous Peoples, across our 
global business. The SPMS applies to active and discontinued operations 
and new projects alike with the goal of driving robust and consistent 
social performance and critical internal coordination, communications 
and accountability. 
•	 Social Performance Plans – Each operating mine site and new project 
maintains a social performance plan that articulates site-specific activities 
that address the requirements of the SPMS within the local context, 
including risk and impact assessment and management, required 
ongoing consultation and engagement with affected stakeholders and 
development assistance for the communities near our operations, among 
other things.
•	 Human Rights Policy – States our commitments to the International Bill 
of Human Rights, the UNGPs and the VPs in addition to our zero 
tolerance for human rights abuses at our operations and throughout our 
value chain. 
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 
We regularly seek feedback and input on a range of topics from our host 
communities and other stakeholders affected by our operations or projects 
through our various engagement channels. The interests and concerns of 
our stakeholders can change over time; therefore, ongoing and proactive 
engagement to learn about changing needs and expectations is necessary. 
We engage with stakeholders through Community Partnership Panels in the 
U.S., community engagement dialogue in South America, and partnerships 
with the Indigenous Councils in Indonesia led by Community Liaison 
Officers. All three models focus on collaborative, proactive, transparent 
communications and dialogue, and all include local leaders and citizens who 
represent a broad range of stakeholder groups in each community. In addition, 
all of our operations frequently engage with stakeholders through situation- or 
topic-specific meetings, presentations, community affairs office hours, and 
other community outreach and engagement efforts. Through our collaborative 
engagements, we identify relevant community programs and projects, some of 
which are featured in this report. In 2022, we held approximately 5,500 formal 
community engagement meetings through our various models. 
In 2022, we adopted a company-wide digital system to enhance the tracking 
and documentation of our informal and formal stakeholder engagements 
and reported community grievances. This system increases our visibility into 
potential operational risks by integrating our community stakeholder and 
grievance information in with our risk register, where risks are cataloged 
according to priority and then managed.
We acknowledge and respect the 
Indigenous Peoples who have historically 
occupied areas on or near our operations or 
have ancestral connections to these lands.
DreamCatcher graduates, Arizona.
 66
COMMUNITY GRIEVANCE MECHANISM 
To support constructive engagement and resolution of potential issues and 
adverse impacts, we maintain a site-level grievance mechanism where 
community members, including Indigenous Peoples, can register their 
complaints. Our community grievance mechanism serves as an early warning 
system for FCX by tracking trends and patterns in grievance types so they can 
be addressed in their earliest stages, ideally prior to further escalation. 
Our community grievance mechanism is available in local languages, with 
management protocols tailored to local culture, and serves as the system 
for documenting and tracking complaints or impacts as well as the type and 
timeliness of our responses. We socialize our grievance mechanism through 
a variety of means tailored to local customs and site-level engagement 
strategies, including verbally, by distributing flyers at community meetings and 
posting information on our Freeport in my Community website, among others.
Grievances are typically received (either anonymously or with attribution) by 
community engagement team members through in-person engagements, in 
writing via physical drop boxes, or via local telephone hotlines. All grievances 
are routed to the site community grievance officer, who is expected to contact 
the complainant within two business days to confirm receipt. The community 
grievance officer works with relevant departments to investigate, and where 
appropriate, provide remedy. We aim to respond to grievances within 30 days 
of receipt. 
Our recently adopted company-wide digital platform improves the community 
grievance escalation process by streamlining internal communication and 
provides for easier identification of trends across our sites. Community 
grievance officers can record entries in their local language on their mobile 
device from the field, and where applicable, recorded grievances are synced 
with environmental incidents and stakeholder profiles within the broader 
stakeholder management system. 
During 2022, we implemented our updated community grievance 
management standard operating procedure across our sites, which had been 
updated to incorporate the effectiveness criteria outlined in the UNGPs and 
formalized a process for quarterly corporate team reviews. These reviews help 
drive consistency in grievance handling across sites as well as monitoring of 
trends and opportunities to share learnings across sites. 
During 2022, our global operations recorded 161 community grievances, 
mostly regarding health and safety, environmental concerns, community 
benefits, and local sourcing. 
For example, we have received numerous grievance reports about highway 
safety incidents involving individuals throwing rocks at vehicles on the 
primary roadway connecting our Morenci and Safford operations. In response, 
employees from our Safford operations engaged the San Carlos Apache Tribe’s 
Chief of Police, Transportation Committee, and Law & Order Committee; 
and the Arizona Department of Transportation (ADOT) Southeast District 
Administrator to investigate the issue. The group determined that the majority 
of incidents occurred during summer and winter school breaks. Nearby school 
districts joined our stakeholder group and an action plan was created to thin 
overgrown vegetation and improve lighting along the highway and bridge 
crossings. It also included communicating with school resource officers and 
publicly posting about the incidents on social media. After school and summer 
science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) programming was created 
to keep students engaged throughout the year. In 2022, this STEM programming 
received a $20,000 grant from FCX’s Native American Partnership Fund. 
Stakeholder collaboration will continue into 2023 as ADOT seeks federal funding 
to develop a comprehensive safety action plan for this corridor.
Health & Safety	 19%
Environment	
15%
Community 
Investments	
12%
Local Sourcing	 12%
Other1	
10%
Employment	
8%
Odor, Noise, 
Vibration	
8%
Property Damage	
6%
Cultural Heritage	
3%
Land Rights	
3%
Livelihoods	
2%
Workforce Behavior	 1%
Community
Engagement	
1%
19+15+12+12+10+8+8+6+3+3+2+1+1+J
GRIEVANCE
TOPICS (%)
1.	 Other includes obstruction of view, light disturbance, blight, housing and other grievances not listed above.
Note: A "community grievance" is any self-reported issue/concern (perceived or actual) that an affected member or 
group of the communities within our area of direct or indirect operational impact and other stakeholders wants FCX 
or its business partners to address and resolve. 
View more data in 
the Performance 
Data Section
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
OUR APPROACH WITH INDIGENOUS PEOPLES 
Indigenous Peoples often reside in areas that are home to rich biodiversity 
and to many of the most diverse peoples, languages and cultures. We 
acknowledge and respect the social, economic and cultural rights of the 
Indigenous Peoples who have historically occupied areas within or near 
our operations or have ancestral connections to these lands, and we also 
understand that Indigenous Peoples often have special connections to land, 
water and other natural resources that can be tied to their physical, spiritual, 
cultural and economic well-being. 
We are steadfast in our commitment to acknowledge, respect and engage 
collaboratively with Indigenous Peoples. We strive to understand the values 
and cultural needs of each group of Indigenous Peoples, develop and maintain 
ongoing relationships, support effective, ongoing engagement and create 
opportunities for social benefit, shared value creation and long-term resilience. 
We do this by consistently applying our Building Trust approach, which aims 
to foster trust through ongoing engagement, transparency and creating shared 
value. We began this approach in North America and it is informing our global 
engagement strategies with Indigenous Peoples, which we discuss in more 
detail on the following page. 
We also are committed to adhering to the ICMM Position Statement on 
Indigenous Peoples and Mining, and we are dedicated to pursuing FPIC for 
new projects and material expansions of existing projects where significant 
impacts are likely to occur. 
Our stakeholder engagement program includes formal interactions with 
Indigenous Peoples in Central Papua, Indonesia; Native Americans in the U.S.; 
and the traditional communities of Alto El Loa in Chile. The adjacent table 
provides a listing of the Indigenous Peoples with whom we currently interact 
on either a routine or periodic basis. This list is neither exhaustive nor static. 
For example, there are other Native American Tribes in the Southwestern U.S. 
whom we interact with on a limited basis. 
INDIGENOUS GROUPS/COMMUNITIES1 BY REGION/SITE
Southwestern U.S. (Arizona, Colorado, New Mexico)
Ak Chin Indian Community
Fort McDowell Yavapai Nation 
Fort Sill Apache Tribe2
Gila River Indian Community 
Hopi Tribe
Hualapai Tribe 
Mescalero Apache Tribe
Navajo Nation
Pascua Yaqui Tribe 
Pueblo of Zuni 
Salt River Pima-Maricopa 
	 Indian Community 
San Carlos Apache Tribe
Southern Ute Tribe 
Tohono O’odham Nation 
Ute Mountain Ute Tribe 
White Mountain Apache Tribe 
Yavapai-Apache Nation
Yavapai Prescott Indian Tribe 
El Abra (Chile)
Ascotán
Ayllu Ojos de San Pedro
Ayquina
Caspana
Chiu Chiu
Conchi Viejo
Coska
Cupo
Estación San Pedro
Lasana
Ollagüe
Taira
Toconce
PT-FI (Central Papua, Indonesia)
Amungme
Damal
Dani
Kamoro
Mee
Moni
Nduga
1. 	 Listed in alphabetical order
2.	 While their tribal government is located in Oklahoma, some of our operations are located in part of the 
Fort Sill Apache Tribe’s aboriginal homelands.
 67
 68
BUILDING TRUST WITH INDIGENOUS PEOPLES 
Over the last few years, we have focused on strengthening our work to 
build trust with Indigenous Peoples potentially or actually impacted by 
our operations. We know that trust is earned, and thus, the overarching, 
systemized approach seeks to facilitate trust through dialogue, ongoing 
relationships, transparency and creating shared value—as opposed to 
transactional engagements. Over time, deeper trust among FCX and 
Indigenous Peoples is expected to enable a clearer path to FPIC when new 
expansions or projects are undertaken that may have significant adverse 
impacts on Indigenous Peoples. 
We began the Building Trust approach in North America in 2019 with a 
workshop facilitated by third-party experts in Indigenous Peoples relations. 
We wanted to better understand our current relationships with Native American 
Tribes and identify areas and key goals for improvement. Our internal Native 
American Affairs team, made up of professionals with diverse tribal heritage and 
experience, provided critical guidance and leadership through this effort, and 
continue to do so on an ongoing basis. The team’s expertise, knowledge and 
perspective are invaluable to informing our practices. 
This approach is driven by dedicated trust-building teams at our operations, 
placing the engagement strategy and execution in close proximity to our 
Indigenous neighbors. These cross-functional teams are responsible for 
understanding the values and cultural needs of each group of Indigenous 
Peoples, for developing and maintaining ongoing relationships, for identifying 
and supporting effective engagements on a regular basis and for creating 
opportunities for social benefit.
As Building Trust has matured across the organization, so too has its reach. 
More team members at FCX are interacting with our Indigenous neighbors, 
and our engagements have become more robust and have broadened beyond 
tribal leadership into Indigenous communities. This serves as evidence that 
sustained, intentional and culturally respectful engagement 
can build deeper trust and stronger relationships. 
BUILDING TRUST IN ACTION 
In 2022, FCX began working to acquire land from the Arizona State 
Land Department and Bureau of Land Management, which would 
be added to our Morenci and Safford operations. We voluntarily 
and proactively began outreach with the neighboring Indigenous 
communities ahead of the formal tribal consultation process. 
Initial conversations were challenging, given that we are seeking 
to privatize additional land. However, our proactive outreach 
demonstrates our respect for the tribes and their input. We also 
engaged Indigenous communities that have ancestral connections to 
the area. We believe this engagement has been welcomed by the 11 
participating tribes, and many tribes indicated they were interested 
in additional engagement. 
FCX Native American Scholarship 
recipient in Arizona. We seek to 
support our Indigenous neighbors 
through capacity building and 
educational opportunities.
 69
LAND USE, RESETTLEMENT AND CUSTOMARY RIGHTS 
Indigenous Peoples in Chile and Native Americans in the U.S. either currently 
or have historically occupied lands in proximity to our operations or have 
ancestral connections to these lands. Our Grasberg operations in Indonesia 
are located where Indigenous Peoples of Central Papua hold customary land 
rights. All land used by our Grasberg operations was legally and formally 
released by the customary landowners through the local government for 
use by the company when PT-FI signed its initial Contract of Work with the 
Government of Indonesia in 1967. Since then, PT-FI has been granted a special 
mining license from the Indonesia government and entered into several 
agreements related to customary land rights recognition with the Indonesia 
government and Indigenous Peoples. 
In all cases, we seek to avoid involuntary displacement of people, whether 
physical or economic, and when unavoidable, we are committed to 
conducting community resettlement activities in alignment with international 
best practice. This requires careful planning and implementation, including 
information disclosure, consultation, and informed participation of the 
people affected in order to minimize impacts through appropriate mitigation 
measures. This commitment is reflected in our Social Performance Policy 
and Human Rights Policy available on our website. We have not had any 
involuntary resettlement activities since 2016 when FCX sold its interest in 
the Tenke Fungurume mine in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
We acknowledge and respect the social, 
economic and cultural rights of the Indigenous 
Peoples who have historically occupied areas 
on or near our operations or have ancestral 
connections to these lands.
Members of the Kamoro Indigenous 
community near our Grasberg 
operations in Papua, Indonesia.
 70
Americas 
In 2022, we launched a Native American Cultural Awareness & Sensitivity 
Training series designed to help our teams understand and more deeply 
respect the heritage of Indigenous Peoples in North America. The training 
series is made available to our sites across the U.S. and to teams at our 
corporate offices. By the end of 2022, FCX leaders and teams, who have the 
potential to interface with Indigenous communities, received the training. 
Our Sierrita operations have worked with the Tohono O’odham Nation to 
formalize a process for accessing company land for harvesting vegetation 
and have conducted four harvests of the fruits of culturally significant plants 
in the San Xavier District during the year. For Indigenous Peoples, harvesting 
is a centuries-old practice that connects to subsistence, health, religion and 
relationship with traditional environments. 
In Peru, we continued aiding an annual Indigenous Peoples horse pilgrimage 
that passes through our Cerro Verde operations. We provide infrastructure and 
support to ensure people and their horses can safely cross our operations to 
arrive at a culturally significant religious site. We also partner with the Catholic 
Church to maintain ecclesiastic monuments in the community and with local 
authorities to preserve archeological artifacts in a Tambo Cultural (museum) in 
the Yarabamba District to help preserve Peru’s rich culture. 
Indonesia 
In Indonesia, we are supporting the Indigenous Kamoro in their tradition 
of wood carving. In cooperation with the Maramowe Weaiku Kamorowe 
Foundation, we are seeking to increase the number of young Kamoro carvers 
to promote their art and culture. Furthermore, we are helping the carvers create 
a marketplace for their art to increase awareness and income opportunities. 
Through 2022, PT-FI has supported 544 Kamoro carvers from 33 villages.
In 2022, two villages of the Kamoro tribe adjacent to PT-FI’s operations 
conducted a rite-of-passage ritual called Karapao in which boys are initiated 
into manhood. The ritual includes an eight-month-long process of reinforcing 
the connection of the boys to land, rivers, kinship and ancestors. PT-FI 
supported the Kamoro villagers throughout the preparation and implementation 
of the ritual by preparing the ritual pad, and providing transport of goods, 
extended family members and guests. The ritual culminated in September 2022, 
and PT-FI’s senior leadership was invited to attend.
CULTURAL HERITAGE 
Cultural heritage can be defined as Indigenous Peoples’ or any other 
population’s unique assets and resources, including, but not limited to 
tangible assets such as places, buildings, and artifacts, or intangible 
assets such as practices, customs, religious/spiritual sites and shrines. 
We recognize that respecting and supporting the cultural heritage of 
our host communities, including our Indigenous neighbors, is critical to 
our ongoing social license to operate. While cultural resources linked to 
the heritage and history of an area are associated with a wide variety of 
people and places, within the context of mining we recognize it is critically 
important for Indigenous Peoples. 
We acknowledge that the nature and location of our mining and processing 
activities means we have the potential to impact cultural heritage. We seek 
to avoid, minimize or mitigate negative impacts to cultural heritage through 
studies or surveys, planning and ongoing engagement with Indigenous 
Peoples and other impacted communities, including providing opportunities 
for stakeholders to identify any assets or resources that are culturally 
or traditionally significant and participating in decisions regarding their 
protection and management. 
We are guided by a fundamental commitment to respect and appreciate 
the cultural heritage of people in the communities where we operate. This 
promise is connected to our overarching commitments — such as Human 
Rights — and it manifests in the choices we make when our operations 
can adversely impact the culture of our communities and neighbors.
In 2022, PT-FI supported two 
nearby villages of Indigenous 
Kamoro community with 
their right-of-passage ritual 
called Karapao.
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
 71
COMMUNITY RESILIENCE 
We are committed to working with local communities and Indigenous 
Peoples in the areas where we operate to build resilience and well-being 
in order to help communities and people thrive over the life of our mines 
and beyond. Partnering with communities to increase resilience means 
supporting their ability to better anticipate, navigate and successfully adapt 
to unforeseeable events or conditions, such as impacts from climate change 
or changes in employment types and opportunities. This includes creating 
opportunities, activities and skills that increase community-level capacity 
to maximize the economic opportunities created by and beyond mining to 
increase long-term socioeconomic benefits. 
We believe we can best support community and Indigenous Peoples’ 
resilience by focusing our efforts in three main areas: (1) education and 
skill-building, (2) economic opportunity, and (3) community-level 
leadership and capacity building. Within each of these three areas 
is a fundamental commitment to enable the skills of individuals and 
communities necessary to achieve the overarching goal of resilience.
COMMUNITY RESILIENCE FOCUS AREAS
EDUCATION & 
SKILL-BUILDING
COMMUNITY-LEVEL 
LEADERSHIP & 
CAPACITY BUILDING
ECONOMIC
OPPORTUNITY
Community member 
near our Cerro Verde 
operation, Peru.
1
2
3
 72
 72
Americas 
•	 Through our engagement and dialogue with Native American Nation 
leaders, we understand that a certificate or degree is a high priority for 
tribal members. In partnership with Education Forward Arizona, our 
Native American Scholarship Program provides scholarships to attend 
trade schools, two-year community and tribal colleges, and four-year 
universities and includes a personal success advisor for each student, 
helping them to navigate and overcome the challenges of college life 
and academics. This extra support significantly increases completion 
rates for these students who are often first-generation college attendees 
and enables a smoother transition to career. In 2022, we expanded 
the program significantly by committing $6 million to help 200 Native 
American students from 14 eligible Tribes graduate by 2026. Likewise, in 
2022, also in partnership with Education Forward Arizona, we launched a 
new scholarship program to honor the Navajo Code Talkers, who during 
World War II used their native language to create an unbreakable code 
for radio and telephone communications. Specifically, we committed 
$3 million in scholarships to help 100 Navajo students graduate with a 
higher-education credential by 2026. 
•	 At El Abra, we created a School Fund, which has supported teachers and 
students in Alto El Loa for 12 years. In 2022, we extended the program 
into more communities in the Antofagasta Region, strengthening our 
commitment and widening the impact on the quality of education. 
Schools apply for funding in the following four categories: environment 
and/or heritage, innovation and/or technology, health and well-being, 
and school equipment and infrastructure improvement.
Indonesia 
•	 PT-FI provides funding and technical assistance to support various 
community development programs in areas such as health, education, 
economic development and local infrastructure. In 1996, PT-FI established a 
social investment fund with the aim of contributing to social and economic 
development in the Mimika Regency. Prior to 2019, the fund was mainly 
managed by the Amungme and Kamoro Community Development 
Organization, a community-led institution. In 2019, a new foundation, the 
Amungme and Kamoro Community Empowerment Foundation (Yayasan 
Pemberdayaan Masyarakat Amungme dan Kamoro, or YPMAK) was 
established, and in 2020, PT-FI appointed YPMAK to assist in distributing 
a significant portion of PT-FI’s funding to support the development and 
empowerment of the local Indigenous Papuan people. Among the various 
programs, YPMAK supports a scholarship program for the local Indigenous 
Papuans, which aims to increase the number of Indigenous Papuans 
receiving education, who can then help support development in Papua and 
Indonesia. In 2022, the program had 1,222 active scholarship recipients and 
supported 1,530 students in the boarding school program.
Education & Skill-Building 
By increasing the quality, availability and access to education and skills training for Indigenous Peoples and the 
local communities, we aim to improve socio-economic mobility, which in turn can help to build resilience over time. 
This includes providing opportunities for people to gain and adapt skills that allow them to secure employment in 
the mining industry, its value chain and beyond.
We work to support the education of 
local Indigenous Papuans near our 
Grasberg minerals district, Indonesia. 
1
 73
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
Americas 
•	 In 2021 and 2022, the Freeport-McMoRan Foundation provided operating 
support to the Arizona Economic Recovery Center, which was launched 
to provide technical assistance and training in rural Arizona communities, 
including tribes and Indigenous Peoples to aid them in submitting higher 
quality competitive applications for federal, state and foundation grant 
funding. Through support from FCX and other partners, this program has 
assisted nearly 500 organizations in receiving 100 grant awards totaling 
$30 million dollars. 
•	 Since 2018, we have supported Kickstart Ajo, an initiative led by the 
International Sonoran Desert Alliance that aims to build a more resilient 
local economy by increasing access to capital and growth opportunities 
for the area’s business community. Through multi-agency collaboration, 
the effort has mobilized an array of services and support, such as 
technical assistance, matched savings accounts, micro-grants and 
access to other capital to empower entrepreneurs in Ajo, Arizona (where 
FCX has discontinued operations). Eighty-four businesses have received 
support since the inception of the project. 
•	 At Cerro Verde, we support the Center for Entrepreneurship and Business 
Development (EMPRENDE) to provide no-cost business management 
consulting to entrepreneurs in the site’s direct influence area. EMPRENDE 
has provided more than 52,800 hours of consulting services to more than 
3,900 entrepreneurs. Eighty-eight percent of participants have gone on 
to establish formal businesses, and 82% of EMPRENDE participants are 
women entrepreneurs.
Indonesia 
•	 In 2022, PT-FI provided $1.5 million in support of nearly 200 local 
entrepreneurs. This support helped local micro-, small- and medium-
business owners create new market opportunities, expand, and hire more 
local talent. This support helped spur the creation of more than 1,500 
employment opportunities in the Mimika Regency. 
•	 PT-FI and YPMAK promote projects under their Local Commodity/
Agriculture Development Program to different stakeholders, and as of 
year-end 2022, approximately 1,000 people were employed through its 
projects relating to fishery, livestock breeding, farming, and food security. 
Long-standing projects, such as the fisheries project, which has been 
operating since 2002, and the animal husbandry project, which has been 
operating since 2011, have created alternative employment opportunities 
for local community members. Additionally, PT-FI and YPMAK support 
the agriculture and food security project, which aims to educate local 
communities on plant cultivation of sago, coffee and horticulture produce 
such as vegetables and fruits. 
Economic Opportunity 
By strengthening various local community support services and resources that are critical to enabling economic 
opportunity, we aim to contribute to overall community resilience and well-being. Our work includes supporting the 
development and growth of small businesses, promoting local sourcing opportunities, enhancing basic infrastructure 
such as affordable housing, aiding local food security, and supporting widespread access to health and wellness services. 
Community members near 
our Grasberg minerals 
district, Indonesia. 
2
 74
Americas 
•	 We partnered with Better City to work with local communities to develop 
Resilience Action Plans. This community-led process helps stakeholders 
identify, understand and pre-emptively mitigate potential risks specific 
to their local context with special attention on mine closures and climate 
change. The plans identify concrete strategies that the communities 
can deploy to combat possible scenarios that address challenges and 
opportunities. In 2022, Resilience Action Planning was conducted in Lake 
County, Colorado and Grant County, New Mexico. We expect to initiate 
this work at additional U.S. sites in 2023.
•	 We helped improve water availability for the district of La Joya near 
our Cerro Verde operations. The project included the installation of a 
cleaning system, new hydraulic cylinders and infrastructure lighting in 
the Socosani dam as well as improving the tunnel of the main canal used 
for irrigation which increased water access. As the climate changes, 
access to water has become increasingly challenging for this community 
and this effort supported both adaptation of and economic benefit for 
the district. These investments benefit the approximate 40,000 people in 
the district of La Joya and 2,500 farmers in the area who farm on 10,000 
hectares of land.
•	 In 2022, we launched an Agricultural Fund for Rural Development 
near our El Abra operation to help promote agricultural and livestock 
development in the rural areas of the El Loa and Tocopilla provinces. In 
its first year, the fund supported 35 projects that helped area farmers 
modernize production processes, acquire and use new technologies, 
optimize crop yields, enhance infrastructure, and purchase new 
machinery to reduce the physical burdens on farmers in the region, a 
significant portion of which are older adults. 
Indonesia 
•	 In 2022, we facilitated two trainings for Indigenous Peoples near our 
Grasberg operations to help enhance their leadership, infrastructure and 
financial management. Additionally, in collaboration with the Indigenous 
Councils and the local university, we entered into an agreement to 
monitor and evaluate PT-FI’s social investment in the Kamoro and 
Amungme communities. We will begin training the Indigenous Councils 
on effective management of social investment funds later in 2023. 
Community-Level Leadership and Capacity Building 
By investing in capacity building and leadership development, we aim to better enable community-level institutions 
and their leaders, including local governments and nonprofits, to develop, improve or retain knowledge and 
skills that can help them become more effective and empowered in stewarding the community’s well-being and 
resilience over time. We view capacity building as a continuous effort to promote resilient and empowered citizens 
that can thrive during and beyond the life of our mines. 
 74
Cerro Verde operation supports 
local water infrastructure that 
benefits agriculture in the region.
3
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
 75
WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT & DEVELOPMENT 
Women’s empowerment is a theme across our community engagement 
and investment work. We believe inclusive and diverse communities that 
enable full and equal participation of women are stronger, more stable and 
resilient over the long term. In addition to contributing to the UN SDGs, our 
empowerment initiatives seek to promote women’s rights through policy 
advocacy, leadership in the public and private sectors, small business training, 
supply chain access programs and educational attainment. 
The largest of our economic empowerment programs, DreamBuilder — a 
free, online entrepreneurship training program for women — has reached 
enrollment of more than 134,000 women across the world (primarily in the 
U.S., Chile and Peru where we operate). In Peru alone, over 30,000 women 
were enrolled as of year-end. Now in its eleventh year, the program seeks to 
equip women with the skills and confidence needed to become financially 
independent business owners. In 2022, graduates of the program applied 
their learnings to professional services, adult literacy, jewelry and sustainable 
children’s games, among other small businesses. 
FCX partners with WEConnect International and Vital Voices to support 
women's empowerment and leadership. As both a member of, and long-
standing partner with, WEConnect International, FCX has helped enable 
women business owners compete for a greater share of private sector 
sourcing contracts, including identifying opportunities for women to 
participate in our own supply chain. FCX is also the sole investor in VVEngage, 
a partnership with Vital Voices to advance women’s public leadership and 
the UN SDGs by conducting online and in-person training sessions with 
experts from the Vital Voices Global Network and professors from the Harvard 
Kennedy School of Government. The customized fellowship curriculum 
includes nine months of rigorous courses in topics such as leadership, 
strategic communications, strategy and governance and supports the fellows 
to acquire specific skills to achieve their goals related to the advancement of 
the SDGs in their communities. Since its launch, 114 female fellows from 60 
countries around the world have benefitted from VVEngage.
DreamBuilder has reached 
enrollment of more than 
134,000
women across the world.
DreamBuilder graduates near 
our El Abra operations in Chile. 
 76
ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTIONS
WHY IT MATTERS
Mining operations can contribute to national, regional and local development 
through employment opportunities, voluntary investments in communities 
and through taxes, royalties and other financial obligations in jurisdictions 
where the operations are located. Transparent disclosure of our revenues and 
payments to host governments and investments in communities can promote 
better governance and accountability regarding the distribution of natural 
resource industry revenues. 
OUR APPROACH 
As an important part of our commitment to responsible production, FCX aims 
to be a good corporate citizen in the host communities and countries in which 
we operate. We contribute to the wealth and prosperity of these countries, 
regions and communities by generating economic value that includes tax 
and royalty payments, which support essential government functions such 
as education and infrastructure, local hiring and procurement that supports 
many types of jobs in a community or region, and other direct and indirect 
community investments. However, it is also important to recognize that 
mining is an inherently cyclical business with production levels and profits 
fluctuating over the life of the mine, which can impact our economic and 
social investments and other sustainability programs. 
ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTIONS & CASH PAYMENTS TO GOVERNMENTS 
In 2022, FCX’s direct economic contributions totaled $19.0 billion, which 
includes $10.8 billion in payments to suppliers; $2.6 billion in employee wages 
and benefits; $2.3 billion in payments to providers of capital; $3.2 billion 
in taxes, royalties and other payments to governments; and $177 million in 
voluntary community investments. We also made investments of $3.5 billion in 
capital expenditures. 
Please refer to the key economic contributions and cash payments to 
governments tables in the Performance Data section of this report for more 
detailed financial information.
FCX’s global tax strategy seeks to balance the economic considerations of 
our host governments and stakeholders with our business objectives. In 
jurisdictions where we conduct business, we advocate for the development 
and implementation of fair and predictable tax laws on issues that are 
important to our business and the industry. The Extractive Industries 
Transparency Initiative (EITI) is a global standard to promote transparent 
and accountable management of natural resources. We have endorsed and 
committed to support the EITI since 2008. We maintain significant mining 
operations in Indonesia and Peru, both of which have implemented EITI, 
and we actively support and participate in associated in-country processes 
as part of EITI. We also aim to support governments’ ambitions to achieve 
contract transparency. In addition to our country-level EITI commitments 
and regulatory reporting obligations, our practice is to provide transparency 
by voluntarily reporting cash payments to governments in all significant 
jurisdictions where we conduct business. Our support includes direct financial 
contributions as well as contributions through ICMM. 
Management of our tax strategy is conducted within the corporate finance 
group under the direction of our Chief Financial Officer. Tax risks are identified 
and monitored by a global team of tax professionals, who assist in executing 
our tax affairs in line with our strategy, PBC and internal control policies. 
We are committed to fully cooperating with all tax authorities and providing 
access to accounting and governance documentation as requested.
We contribute to 
the wealth and 
prosperity of the 
countries, regions 
and communities 
where we operate 
by generating 
economic value. 
Grasberg minerals district, Indonesia. 
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
 77
COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS 
We believe communities best understand their own needs and our ongoing 
engagements are designed to facilitate dialogue related to their needs and 
objectives as well as cultivate opportunities for partnership. We fund our social 
investment programs directly through each operation and their respective 
foundation or community trust fund. We encourage community-led processes 
that seek to empower stakeholders to help direct our investments to relevant 
programs that meet mutually defined goals and objectives. Annually, we 
seek to invest 1% of our revenue (based on a prior three-year average). Our 
investment target for 2023 is approximately $200 million, and we invested $177 
million during 2022, which exceeded our target of $171 million. Our revenue 
and corresponding community investments tend to vary year over year 
because of a variety of factors, including the cyclical nature of our business 
and community needs. Since community investment targets were first 
established in 2009, we have invested nearly $2.3 billion dollars in community 
development initiatives.
2022 TOTAL
COMMUNITY
INVESTMENT 
$177
MILLION
$2.3
BILLION
CUMULATIVE 
INVESTMENT 
SINCE 2009
CONTRIBUTING TO THE UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
The SDGs were adopted by the United Nations in 2015 and seek to make the 
world more peaceful and prosperous for both people and planet. By supplying 
responsibly produced copper, we are proud to be a positive contributor to the 
world well beyond our operational boundaries. Being a responsible producer 
includes contributing to relevant SDGs within our host communities and 
countries and across our value chains, while simultaneously seeking to mitigate 
any potential impediments to their realization. 
To some degree, FCX works toward all 17 SDGs through aspects of our 
day-to-day work at our various global sites, partnership initiatives and social 
investments. SDG 12 — Responsible Consumption and Production — is central 
to our strategy of being foremost in the global copper industry. 
While we have been mapping our programs to all of the SDGs for many 
years, our goal is to advance this work by more deliberately identifying 
and focusing on those goals where we believe we can make the most 
meaningful contribution. We have identified the SDGs that we believe our 
global programs contribute to the most and have noted the relevant goals 
throughout this report.
View more data in 
the Performance 
Data Section
 78
Mangrove growth near our Grasberg minerals 
district, Indonesia. 
 79
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
THRIVING
ENVIRONMENTS
FCX recognizes that mining impacts the natural environment. We are committed 
to conducting our mining and processing operations in a manner that 
minimizes adverse impacts on the environment and supports protection of 
the natural environment and ecosystems through responsible environmental 
stewardship, strong management systems and continuous improvement.
Effective environmental protection and stewardship are key to ensuring the 
long-term viability of our business, including maintaining the necessary 
support from our host communities and governments. 
Our workforce incorporates environmental awareness into daily activities 
and implements actions that advance environmental protection. This reaches 
the highest level of our executive management, and the Board’s CRC 
provides oversight of management on the direction and effectiveness of our 
environmental practices, policies and programs. 
Our Environmental Policy serves as the foundation for our protection of the 
natural environment in the regions where we live and work. 
In addition to adhering to strict compliance with laws and regulations, and 
implementing risk management strategies based on verifiable data and 
sound science, we plan and conduct our operations in a manner that seeks 
to minimize adverse environmental effects, with a particular focus on climate, 
water, biodiversity and tailings and waste management. We review and 
account for the environmental impacts of our activities throughout the entire 
mining life cycle, including through mine closure. 
In 2022, we continued to implement the Global Industry Standard on Tailings 
Management to ensure that we are focusing our efforts on our highest priority 
Tailings Storage Facilities. We also continued to advance our climate strategy 
with particular emphasis on enhancing our Scope 3 emissions data and the 
nexus between water and climate.
The following pages outline how we aim to protect the environment and the 
steps we are taking to minimize our environmental footprint. 
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
 80
CLIMATE
WHY IT MATTERS 
Climate change poses considerable near- and long-term challenges for society. Mining is energy-intensive and 
generates significant GHG emissions, which contribute to climate change. However, the copper we produce plays an 
essential role in global decarbonization. It is a critical component in the technologies that will be deployed in a highly 
electrified and low-carbon economy, including solar and wind energy and electric vehicles. These technologies are 
critical to support the global energy transition needed to accelerate toward a 2050 net zero economy.
OUR APPROACH 
As one of the world’s largest copper producers, we understand our critical role in the low-carbon energy transition. 
We are dedicated to supplying the global economy with responsibly produced copper which includes operating in 
a manner that manages and mitigates our GHG emissions and other climate-related risks and impacts. Our climate 
strategy is comprised of three pillars: Reduction, Resilience and Contribution.
To learn more about our approach 
to climate, including our strategy, 
please read our latest Climate Report 
available on our website. 
FCX aspires to participate in, and positively 
contribute to, a 2050 net zero economy. 
1.	 REDUCTION 
	
We strive to reduce, manage and mitigate our GHG emissions 
where possible. We have four 2030 GHG emissions reduction 
targets, covering nearly 100% of our Scope 1 and 2 GHG 
emissions, which help us to manage relevant, climate-related 
risks and support the decarbonization of our business globally. 
Our decarbonization initiatives can be described by four 
primary levers: decarbonizing electricity supply, electrification of 
equipment, energy and asset efficiency, and process innovation. 
We believe that these four levers are the foundation that will help 
us to further define our decarbonization roadmap to achieve our 
2030 GHG emissions reduction targets and beyond. 
CLIMATE STRATEGY
2.	RESILIENCE 
	
We strive to enhance our resilience to climate change risks (both 
physical and transitional risks) for our current and future operations, 
our host communities and our stakeholders. This includes working 
to analyze and prepare for extreme weather events, water stress 
and other potential climate change impacts while also supporting 
our host communities and responding to anticipated market and 
regulatory demands.
3.	CONTRIBUTION 
	
We strive to be a positive contributor beyond our operational 
boundaries by responsibly producing the copper that will support 
the technologies needed to enable the energy transition. This 
includes collaborating with partners in our value chain, and industry 
associations, to identify climate-related solutions that will support the 
transition to a low-carbon economy and ultimately meet the goals of 
the Paris Agreement.
 81
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
PERFORMANCE
We are advancing important initiatives to reduce our GHG emissions, 
improve energy efficiency, evaluate and integrate the use of lower carbon and 
renewable energy and enhance our resilience to future climate-related risks. 
We continue to make meaningful progress in advancing efforts to decarbonize 
our electricity supply. In 2022, we conducted a preliminary scoping study to 
assess the viability of replacing PT-FI’s coal-fired power plant with a gas-fired 
combined cycle facility fueled by liquified natural gas (LNG). The findings 
show LNG has the potential to be an especially durable, lower-carbon 
energy source for our remote and complex operations in Indonesia. While we 
recognize that LNG is not a renewable energy source, we are encouraged by 
the potential to achieve a meaningful reduction in emissions at PT-FI where 
solar and wind face challenges to becoming stable, single-energy solution to 
powering one of the world’s largest copper and gold mining operations. We 
are proceeding with a comprehensive feasibility study and permit engineering, 
which we expect to complete by the end of 2023. Our preliminary studies 
indicate that a new power plant fueled by LNG could drive an approximate 
60% reduction in PT-FI’s Scope 1 GHG emissions intensity versus its 2018 
baseline — double the reduction set out by PT-FI’s current 2030 target.
We continue to advance our “Copper Skies” initiative, which is focused on 
increasing renewable energy power for our Americas operations. We are 
currently collaborating with new and existing energy partners to progress 
phase one of this program which aims to integrate up to 450MW of solar and 
wind sources into our power supply in Arizona and New Mexico. Our focus on 
responsibly transitioning our energy supply is part of our broader effort to further 
refine our decarbonization roadmap to achieve our goals — today and for the 
future. In 2022, we experienced slower-than-planned progress due to demand 
and changing dynamics in the renewables market and permitting process.
We cannot achieve our climate objectives alone. New technological solutions 
and innovations will continue to be required — many of which will be driven 
by industry and value chain collaboration. In 2022, we committed to formal 
collaboration with Caterpillar’s Early Learner program and Komatsu’s GHG 
Alliance, both of which are focused on the development and advancement of 
zero-emissions mining trucks and supporting technologies and infrastructure. 
At PT-FI, we incorporated autonomous and remote-operated equipment 
to reduce workforce exposure to ground failure, wet muck spills and air 
contaminants, and to support reduced emissions. We also are in the process 
of evaluating autonomous haulage solutions in the Americas. 
View more data in 
the Performance 
Data Section 43+29+11+10+6+1+J
Natural Gas	
43%
Hydro	
29%
Coal, Other Fossil Fuels	
11%
Solar, Wind, Geothermal	 10%
Nuclear	
6%
Other	
1%
2022
PURCHASED POWER
BY SOURCE
(%) 89+7+3+1+J
Copper Mining	
89%
Smelting & Refining	
7% 
Molybdenum Mining	
3%
Other	
1%
2022
GHG EMISSIONS
BY BUSINESS AREA1
(%)
38+21+41+J
Scope 1	
38%
Scope 2	
21%
Scope 3	
41%
2022
GHG EMISSIONS
BY TYPE
(%)
1.	 Reflects Scope 1 and 2 emissions only.
 82
2030 GHG EMISSIONS REDUCTION TARGET PERFORMANCE 
Baseline Year
2018 
2019
2020
2021
2022
Target Year
2030 
Intensity Reduction Targets¹
Americas Copper² - 15% intensity reduction
3.72
3.70
3.81
3.59
3.63
3.17 
PT-FI (Grasberg)³ - 30% intensity reduction
4.76
7.73
5.40
3.71
3.52
3.34
Absolute Reduction Targets⁴
Atlantic Copper Smelter & Refinery - 50% absolute reduction
 176,865 
 146,044 
 126,103 
 112,671 
89,435
88,432 
Primary Molybdenum Sites⁵ - 35% absolute reduction
 308,136 
 325,591 
263,023 
232,317 
275,464
200,288 
1.	 Intensity reduction targets (CO2e metric tons / metric ton copper) include total (Scope 1 and 2) emissions and do not include by-products in the denominator. Baseline and target are calculated and therefore may differ due to rounding.
2.	 Americas Copper (for target) includes Bagdad, Cerro Verde, Chino (including Cobre), El Abra, Morenci, Safford (including Lone Star), Sierrita and Tyrone mines as well as the Miami smelter and El Paso refinery. Our Americas copper 
intensity reduction target includes all payable copper, including payable copper in concentrate and cathode, but excludes rod and wire; GHG emissions associated with the production of by-product molybdenum are also included.	
3.	 Our PT-FI intensity reduction target is based on payable copper produced in concentrate. PT-FI concentrate is currently smelted and refined by PT Smelting (PTS) and third-party smelters/refineries whose emissions are currently 
accounted for as our Scope 3 emissions and therefore not included in this target. Upon completion of the PTS expansion after which PT-FI will have majority ownership and the construction of the Manyar smelter in Gresik, GHG 
emissions for smelting and refining are expected to shift from Scope 3 to Scopes 1 and/or 2, and we will adjust our target and baseline in line with the GHG Protocol at such time. 	
4.	 Absolute targets include total (Scope 1 and 2) emissions.	 	
	
	
	
	
5.	 Primary Molybdenum Sites include Climax and Henderson mines located in Colorado, U.S., and downstream molybdenum processing facilities located in the U.S., U.K. and the Netherlands (Fort Madison, Stowmarket and Rotterdam, respectively).
1. REDUCTION
In 2022, our global absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions increased by 
6.9% to approximately 7.7 million metric tons from approximately 7.2 million 
metric tons the prior year. GHG emissions increased due to higher production 
rates at PT-FI, Cerro Verde, Safford and El Abra, as well as the resumption of 
overburden removal, production and maintenance projects previously delayed 
due to COVID-19. Despite the GHG emissions increase in 2022, our absolute 
Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions in 2022 were 6% lower than our 2018 baseline 
levels reflecting significant improvements in energy efficiency and grid 
decarbonization in recent years.
In 2022, our Americas Copper GHG emissions intensity increased by 1.3% 
compared to the prior year; however, its intensity remains a 2.5% improvement 
over the 2018 baseline year. The increase in 2022 was the result of several 
factors, including the resumption of production related activities deferred 
due to COVID-19 and several significant weather events in the winter months, 
which led to increased demand for natural gas and electricity, increasing 
emissions intensity at some sites. This also resulted in lower production due to 
impacts to our open pit mines that cannot be mitigated during or immediately 
after significant rainfall due to unsafe conditions.
In 2022, we continued to reduce PT-FI's GHG emissions intensity with a 5.2% 
improvement over 2021 and a 26% improvement since our 2018 baseline year  
largely driven by completion of the underground transition at the Grasberg 
minerals district. In the coming years, we expect this performance to vary due 
to changes in ore composition and related processing requirements, which 
can impact emissions intensity performance. 
In 2022, Atlantic Copper completed a 78-day planned maintenance shutdown, 
which typically occur approximately every eight years. This led to a 21% 
reduction in its GHG emissions for the year compared to 2021 and a 49% 
reduction since the 2018 baseline. In 2023, GHG emissions are expected to 
increase to more normalized levels commensurate with production plans. 
Our primary molybdenum sites saw a 19% increase in GHG emissions in 
2022 compared to 2021; however, GHG emissions remain 11% below the 2018 
baseline year. This increase was primarily due to a significant increase in 
production at our Climax mine (17%) and the related pit expansion to enable 
increased production rates in the future, all of which required additional 
material haulage and diesel use.
View more data in 
the Performance 
Data Section
 83
ADVANCING OUR SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS INITIATIVES
Scope 3 emissions occur both upstream and downstream of our operations. 
Upstream emissions result from production of materials and fuels that we use 
in our processes such as lime, explosives, chemical reagents and diesel, as well 
as the emissions associated with copper concentrates we purchase for our 
Atlantic Copper smelter and refinery in Spain. Downstream emissions result from 
transport, further refining or transforming of our copper into useable products. 
Generally, Scope 3 emissions for copper are low compared to various other 
metals because the downstream utilization of copper requires comparatively 
less energy, given the relatively minimal downstream processing required to 
transform copper cathode into various forms, such as wire for electrical cables. 
For some metals other than copper, Scope 3 emissions can be multiple times 
their combined Scope 1 and 2 emissions. For FCX, our estimated 2022 Scope 3 
emissions represented approximately 41% of our total Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions.
We recognize that there is increasing pressure on companies to better 
understand and reduce their Scope 3 emissions. Robust, high-quality data is 
imperative to both understand our current performance as well as to establish 
a credible reduction pathway that will contribute to meaningful climate action. 
Because Scope 3 emissions are generated by third parties (i.e., they are other 
companies’ Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions), they are more difficult to estimate. As a 
result, we have been working extensively over the last several years to improve 
our Scope 3 estimates. This includes improving the specificity in our estimates 
by using more accurate methods such as process-based Life Cycle Assessment 
(LCA) data and working to gather data directly from significant suppliers.
In addition to our net zero aspiration and 2030 GHG reduction targets that 
collectively cover nearly 100% of our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions, in January 
2022, we committed to validating our 2030 targets against the Science Based 
Targets initiative (SBTi). SBTi requires a Scope 3 target if Scope 3 emissions 
exceed 40% of total emissions. Further, in 2021, we played a significant role in 
the development of and endorsed the ICMM Climate Change Statement, which 
commits member companies to, among other things, establish Scope 3 targets. 
To that end, we continue to participate in projects with both the ICA and ICMM 
to support the development of industry-specific guidance that can help drive 
a consistent approach for member companies to estimate and improve their 
Scope 3 emissions inventories and enable meaningful target setting. 
2. RESILIENCE
A core pillar of our climate strategy is focused on enhancing resilience – for 
our operations, our host communities and our stakeholders. This includes 
working to identify, analyze and prepare for an increase in extreme weather 
events, water stress and other potential climate change impacts. As part of 
this work, in 2021, we completed our first global climate change scenario 
analysis considering both physical risks and transition risks and opportunities 
across three different climate scenarios. In general, the results of the analysis 
demonstrate that physical risks are highest for FCX in the Current State 
scenario and lowest in the Aggressive Climate Action scenario. Conversely, 
transition risks are highest in the Aggressive Action scenario and lowest in the 
Current State Scenario. Following this analysis, in 2022, we conducted three 
follow-on third-party studies focused on enhancing our understanding of 
how the potential climate-related physical risks identified in our global study 
might materialize at a more localized level. From a transition risk perspective, 
our analysis indicated that FCX must continue to monitor evolving carbon 
and energy policies and prices and evaluate the potential implications for our 
business. In addition, we may face challenges from sulfur supply deficits and 
price volatility if demand for oil and gas sharply declines, and refineries and 
natural gas processing plants that produce sulfur are decommissioned. We 
are collaborating with one of our industry associations on a scenario-based 
market study to better understand this potential challenge in 2023. 
3. CONTRIBUTION 
As our customers focus on their own decarbonization efforts, we anticipate 
that there will be an increasing need for more detail around the carbon 
footprint of our products (Scopes 1, 2 and 3 emissions per ton of copper and 
molybdenum produced). Over the last few years, FCX has participated in 
two industry-led LCAs as well as the ICA’s Global Copper Decarbonization 
Roadmap (GCDR) project. In addition, we are working with peers at ICMM 
to develop Scope 3 guidance for defining, reporting and target development. 
Together, this work is expected to enable more consistent, comparable 
and higher quality entity-based and carbon footprint datasets across the 
industry. Utilizing these datasets and guidance, we are continuing our work 
to develop carbon footprint datasets for each of our products to support our 
downstream customers and OEMs to better estimate their own emissions and 
decarbonization progress. Please refer to the Responsible Value Chain section 
of this report for additional information. 
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
 84
PROCESS INNOVATION: LEACH TO THE LAST DROP PROGRAM
Conventional leaching requires less energy than smelting by using 
chemicals to remove copper from ore. When applied to oxidized copper ores, 
conventional leaching typically recovers between 35% and 85% of contained 
copper. Recovery rates depend on a variety of factors, including mineralogy, 
particle size, acid levels, copper grade, and the length of the leaching process. 
Our team of experts designs each of our leaching processes by modeling 
these variables with the aim of optimizing recovery.
FCX currently has an estimated 38 billion pounds of copper in our active leach 
stockpiles that has not been accounted for in our traditional leaching approach, 
as it had previously been considered either uneconomic and/or unrecoverable. 
Because this copper is already contained within our stockpiles, it does not 
require additional mining. If successful, this could enable us to provide additional 
copper production with a lower carbon and water-intensity footprint. By the end 
of 2023, we are targeting a run rate of 200 million pounds of copper per annum. 
To address this opportunity, we initiated a program — Leach to the Last Drop 
— which is focused on further optimizing our approach to leaching with the 
aim of enhancing recovery rates closer to 85%. 
As part of this program, operations teams use advanced computational 
modeling and improved sensors to better understand how to optimize our 
current leaching approaches. We also are piloting a new approach aimed 
at leaching a type of ore called chalcopyrite, which has traditionally been 
considered unsuitable for the leaching process. If successful, this new approach 
could enable us to utilize existing stockpiles and could be applied more broadly 
across our global operations. It also has the potential to enable elimination of the 
milling and smelting steps in traditional chalcopyrite processing, which could 
reduce tailings produced and water and energy consumption. 
We are continuing our work to apply covers to the leach stockpiles because 
heat retention has been found to enhance recoveries. Early indications show 
the potential to recover an additional 10% of copper from our stockpiles when 
heat is retained. Notably, covering our stockpiles may also reduce evaporation 
losses in the leaching process.
At our Safford operation in Arizona, our team is 
applying covers to our leach stockpiles to increase heat 
retention which has been found to enhance recoveries.
 85
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
WATER STEWARDSHIP
WHY IT MATTERS
Access to safe water is a fundamental human right and is essential to the 
well-being of communities and the environment. It is also necessary for mines, 
smelters, processing facilities and reclamation projects. Effective management 
of water resources can reduce the impact of mining activities on water 
availability and quality while respecting the rights of others.
OUR APPROACH
Water is essential to our work and vital to the long-term sustainability of the 
company and our host communities. We cannot operate without water and 
FCX understands the critical importance of managing the impacts of our 
activities on both water availability and quality along with respecting the rights 
of our host communities and Indigenous neighbors.
FCX’s water stewardship program focuses on maximizing water use efficiency 
within our operations so that we can minimize our use of new freshwater taken 
from the natural environment. We are also focused on shifting our water supplies 
to more sustainable sources (recycled, reused, renewable and lower quality 
sources), minimizing negative impacts from our operations on water quality and 
availability in the local catchments, and supporting the development of access 
to previously unknown, unavailable, or undeveloped water resources.
In addition to focusing on our own water-related supply risks surrounding our 
operations, water stewardship also means we are focused on promoting long-
term water security for our host communities in and around our operations. We 
recognize the importance of working collaboratively with our stakeholders to 
secure access to water in a socially and environmentally responsible manner, 
and we are dedicated to continuously improving our water programs over time.
The global nature of our operations requires a site-specific approach to our 
water strategy. Our global operations are in geographically and climatically 
diverse locations that range from one of the driest places in the world in the 
Atacama Desert in Calama, Chile, to one of the wettest places on earth in 
Papua, Indonesia. These varied environments can lead to circumstances of 
significant competition for water, or conversely where considerable effort is 
required to manage excess water supply.
Policies & Programs 
Globally, our objective is to identify, manage and mitigate both our current 
and future water-related risks to secure the necessary water resources vital 
to support our operations over the long term, while equitably supporting the 
rights and well-being of our local community partners and ecosystems.
Our global water management program goals are the following: (1) optimize 
water use efficiency in our processes, (2) minimize use of new freshwater at 
our operations, (3) reduce our water footprint by transitioning to renewable, 
recycled and/or lower quality water sources, (4) monitor our impact on the 
surrounding communities and environment by continually reviewing our water 
supplies and (5) evaluate new technologies and innovations for large-scale 
tailings management and leaching that can support reduction of future water 
requirements.
We support, and are in the process of implementing, the ICMM Water 
Position Statement, which outlines our commitment to public reporting and 
responsible water use, including strong and transparent water governance, 
effective water management and collaboration towards achieving responsible 
and sustainable water use.
Access to safe water is a fundamental 
human right and is essential to the well-
being of communities and the environment.
Understanding Our Water Supply Risks 
Based on a combination of resources from the World Resources Institute 
(WRI), our own qualitative assessments and our local knowledge of site-
specific circumstances, the number of water risk regions with poor water 
quality or scarce supply is increasing globally, and as a result, competition 
for water is expected to increase. In many instances, we share a freshwater 
source or catchment with other users, such as our local host communities, 
municipalities, and agricultural or industrial organizations.
To effectively manage our water supply-related risks in the near-term, we seek 
to understand the various and continually changing physical environments, 
hydrological systems, and sociopolitical and regulatory contexts of each of 
our operations. 
The conditions and near-term water supply risks that exist near our operations 
are summarized in the table below. Risk considerations include climate 
conditions, water sources, baseline water stress, excess water, litigation and 
access challenges. 
Our water supply risk assessment is an iterative process that we aim to update 
periodically. Over time, we plan to assess and, when appropriate, integrate 
additional critical risks to our water supply risk analysis — such as water quality, 
reputational risks, and shared water resource management — and in due 
course, the potential longer-term impacts associated with climate change.
WATER SUPPLY RISKS
OPERATION
CLIMATE 
CONDITIONS1
WATER SOURCES2
WATER SUPPLY RISKS
WATER 
STRESS3
EXCESS 
WATER4
ACCESS 
CHALLENGES5
Bagdad (Arizona)
Arid; Semi-desert
Groundwater, Surface water, Stormwater, Third party6
Low-Med
Cerro Verde (Arequipa, Peru)
Arid; Desert
Groundwater, Surface water, Stormwater, Third party6
High
X
Chino (New Mexico)
Arid; Semi-desert
Groundwater, Stormwater, Third party6
Low-Med
Climax (Colorado)
Snow; Fully humid
Groundwater, Surface water, Stormwater
Low-Med
El Abra (Calama, Chile)
Arid; Desert
Groundwater, Stormwater
Extremely High
X 
Henderson (Colorado)
Snow; Fully humid
Groundwater, Surface water, Stormwater
Med-High
X
Miami (Arizona)
Arid; Semi-desert
Groundwater, Surface water, Stormwater, Third party6
Med-High
X
X
Morenci (Arizona)
Arid; Semi-desert
Groundwater, Surface water, Stormwater, Third party6
Med-High
X
PT-FI (Papua, Indonesia)
Tropical; Fully humid
Groundwater, Surface water, Stormwater
Low
X
Safford (Arizona)
Arid; Semi-desert
Groundwater, Stormwater
Med-High
X 
Sierrita (Arizona)
Arid; Semi-desert
Groundwater, Stormwater
Med-High
X
Tyrone (New Mexico)
Arid; Semi-desert
Groundwater, Surface water, Stormwater
Low-Med
1. 	 Climate conditions based on the Köppen-Geiger climate classification terminology.
2. 	 Water sources can include groundwater, surface water, stormwater, sea water or third-party sources (including effluent).
3.	 Baseline water stress ratings are defined by a combination of the WRI Aqueduct tool and its associated descriptors for baseline water stress, as well as our own qualitative assessments and local knowledge of the site-specific 
circumstances of withdrawal at each operation. The WRI Aqueduct tool measures baseline water stress as the ratio of total water withdrawals (including domestic, industrial, irrigation, and livestock consumptive and non-consumptive 
uses) to available renewable surface (including the impact of upstream consumptive water users and large dams on downstream water availability) and groundwater supplies. WRI classifications are as follows: low (<10%); low to 
medium (10–20%); medium to high (20–40%); high (40–80%); extremely high (>80%); arid and low water use; and no data.
4. 	 Large-scale water treatment plants have abated excess water risk at sites which would otherwise be considered at-risk.
5. 	 Access challenges can include legal challenges or potential changes in law or regulations that could impact our access to certain water supplies.
6. 	 Third-party water sources are primarily sourced from wastewater effluent.
 86
 87
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
Advancing Our Water Strategy 
Just as we have defined our four decarbonization levers to achieve our GHG 
reduction objectives, FCX is seeking to identify best practices, scalable levers 
and technological innovations in order to maintain our high water use efficiency 
rates over the long-term. At the same time, FCX is also working to identify 
alternative water sources to reduce our reliance on freshwater, which we discuss 
in more detail on the following page. 
We seek to review our water usage and consumption patterns regularly in 
order to understand our water balances, as discussed on page 89, and identify 
efficiency opportunities. Currently, a significant portion of our water consumption 
(the water that is lost in operational activities and cannot be recovered), is due 
to losses from evaporation and entrainment (or trapped water) at our tailings 
storage facilities (TSFs). Water loss due to consumption has a corresponding 
impact to our water use efficiency. 
While our water use efficiency has averaged 88% over the last five years, we 
believe this will be challenging to maintain in the future using current processing 
and tailings technologies, which are tailored for each site for the life of mine. As 
our long-lived, large-scale mines continue to mature and produce more tailings, 
our TSFs will need to increase in height. As surface areas become larger on our 
TSFs, additional evaporation and entrainment will increase our water consumption, 
which may lead to a decrease in our water use efficiency.
Following a cross-functional water strategy workshop and an updated review 
of our site-level water usage and consumption data in 2022, we believe that 
the most material improvement opportunities related to our water consumption 
and corresponding water use efficiency over the longer-term will be driven by 
the deployment of new technologies and innovations pertaining to large scale 
tailings management (greater than 100,000 tons per day) as well as leaching 
of additional ore types rather than milling. We are conducting a variety of pilot 
programs across the company dedicated to evaluating both of these areas, 
including our Leach to the Last Drop program discussed on page 84. 
In the near term, we will continue to focus on incremental efficiency opportunities 
within the confines of our current technologies and operating plans. Given the 
unique water challenges and operational constraints of each site, we recognize 
that specific improvement opportunities will need to be identified on a site-by-site, 
context-specific basis; however, in 2023, we plan to conduct a pilot at Cerro Verde 
to refine and operationalize tools designed to identify water balance gaps and 
assumptions, define risk scenarios, identify efficiency opportunities, and determine 
what tools are available and applicable across our sites. 
THE COLORADO RIVER BASIN
Nearly 6 million acres of farmland, 20 tribal reservations and 40 million 
people1 across seven U.S. states and Mexico depend, in whole or in part, on 
water from the Colorado River Basin. Significant growth, overallocation and 
declining climate conditions have resulted in water shortages and stress 
that impact Colorado River water users. Our Morenci and Sierrita mines 
in Arizona are currently our only sites that directly utilize water from the 
Colorado River through the Central Arizona Project (CAP) system, a 336-
mile long system of aqueducts, tunnels, pumping stations and pipelines. 
Approximately 35% and 15% of the freshwater supply used at Morenci 
and Sierrita, respectively, comes from the CAP system. This consumption 
accounts for a small percentage of each site's total water use each year.
To support the resilience of our operations, as well as for nearby 
communities, we have made significant investments to store some of our 
allocated CAP water supply in underground aquifers in the Phoenix and 
Tucson areas. The stored water is regulated by the Arizona Department of 
Water Resources. For each acre-foot of water stored, FCX acquires a long-
term storage credit (LTSC), which can be accessed at any time in the future. 
In times of water shortage, FCX has agreements in place to transfer its LTSCs 
to local communities, allowing them to access the stored water in exchange 
for their rights to other water sources, such as the Black River (a tributary to 
the Salt River). FCX currently holds sufficient LTSCs for Morenci, which we 
estimate will allow continued access to water for approximately 20 years. 
FCX aims to continue to increase its operational water use efficiencies 
and is working to identify alternative water supplies, including municipal 
effluent and on-site water reuse opportunities to improve our water supply 
security into the future. 
1.	 W.P. Carey School of Business, James, T., Evans, A., Madly, E., & Kelly, C. (2014 December 18). The Economic 
Importance of the Colorado River to the Basin Region. Arizona State University.
WATER TARGET CONSIDERATIONS 
While we had initially sought to establish a water-related target for 
our operations by the end of 2023, we are working to further evaluate 
emerging and existing technologies that could potentially support 
a meaningful improvement in our water consumption at our sites. 
Following this work, we believe we will be in a better position to 
establish a relevant water-related target in the future.
CERRO VERDE’S VIRTUOUS CIRCLE OF WATER
Cerro Verde has made significant investments in local water infrastructure 
that service the city of Arequipa, including constructing dams, potable 
water lines, a waste water treatment plant (WWTP) and main sewage 
collectors. Together, these projects are referred to as our “virtuous circle of 
water” program. This infrastructure supports both our water requirements 
for mining and processing and the local communities. Prior to the WWTP, 
the city of Arequipa discharged most of its raw sewage into the Chili River, 
leaving it contaminated by human waste. Today, the WWTP infrastructure 
intercepts and treats the sewage, thereby improving the local water quality, 
enhancing agricultural production and reducing the risk of waterborne 
illnesses. Half of the treated effluent also supplements existing water 
supplies to support Cerro Verde’s concentrator expansion. The remaining 
half of treated effluent is discharged back into the Chili River. In 2022, Cerro 
Verde was recognized with the distinguished “Positive Climate Award” 
from Green Cross United Kingdom. The award, which was announced at 
the United Nations climate conference COP27 in Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt, 
honored Cerro Verde for its leadership in advancing the energy transition 
and supporting communities and the environment. Specifically, Cerro Verde 
was recognized for its work on the Pillones Dam, the first successful public-
private association in Peru. To date, our work to advance this initiative has 
helped enable 20% more renewable energy in Arequipa, contributed to 
a nearly four-fold increase in the area’s gross domestic product and can 
increase agricultural area by 2,500 to 5,000 hectares depending on the type 
of irrigation systems used (conventional irrigation versus drip irrigation).
Developing Alternative Water Sources 
We are focused on diversifying our water sources — reducing our dependence 
on traditional freshwater sources and transitioning to nontraditional or 
alternative sources, such as municipal wastewater (effluent) or seawater. By 
using effluent or seawater to support our water requirements, we can help to 
reduce the strain on traditional, freshwater sources in our local catchments, 
which often are shared with our neighboring communities. 
We currently use effluent to support our water supply requirements at 
several of our operations, including Morenci, Miami, and Bagdad in Arizona, 
at Chino in New Mexico and at Cerro Verde in Peru. We are exploring the 
potential for using effluent at our Sierrita mine in Arizona and are advancing 
plans to use seawater through desalination at El Abra and at our Manyar 
smelter in Indonesia.
Nearly 97% of the water on the planet is saltwater contained in oceans. With 
proper treatment, this water could serve as a vast water supply resource for 
our mining operations in areas constrained by freshwater access. For example, 
in Indonesia, a key climate-related risk identified through our global climate 
scenario analysis was the potential for future water stress in the area of the 
Manyar smelter project located near Surabaya. PT-FI initially planned to utilize 
a local water source to supply the Manyar smelter. However, we recognized 
through our analysis that our host communities may need to rely on this water 
source in the future for their needs. In order to address this issue, the project 
team evaluated alternative water supply options and is now building a new 
desalination plant as the primary water source, which is supported by the 
Manyar smelter’s proximity to the ocean.
Similarly, in Chile, the El Abra mine is located in an arid region with extremely 
high water risk. Since our current extraction permit for Salar de Ascotán is 
expiring in 2029, we are advancing plans to permit a new water desalination 
plant to support our ongoing operating plans. In addition, there is a potential 
opportunity for a significant expansion at our El Abra mine in the future, and 
we believe the desalination plant would provide optionality to support such 
expansion if approved.
 88
Is there a photo for 
this spot?
We conduct ongoing water monitoring 
near our Cerro Verde operation in Peru.
 89
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
PERFORMANCE 
Our company-wide water balance demonstrates how much water we 
withdraw, consume and discharge. We obtain new water through permits, 
legal rights, and leases for groundwater, and from other sources including the 
dewatering of our mines, rainfall or stormwater and surface water sources, 
such as lakes or rivers. At certain operations, water also is sourced from 
third-party sources (predominantly effluent). New water withdrawn from these 
sources, together with reused and recycled water from our ore processing 
plants, water treatment plants, and tailings facilities make up the total water 
used across our global operations.
Each site maintains a water balance to quantify their water use, consumption, 
storage and discharge volumes. The water balance, coupled with the 
use of groundwater and hydrologic models, are used to track operational 
performance and to address challenges and opportunities related to water 
availability and water quality.
With this information, we can identify opportunities to minimize water loss, such 
as evaporation, optimize recycling and reuse, and maintain compliance with 
quality standards. Taken together, these ongoing studies inform our efforts to 
reduce our overall water utilization — including requirements for new freshwater 
— where operational efficiencies and production requirements allow.
Consumption is water that is 
lost in operational activities and 
cannot be recovered due primarily 
to losses from evaporation and 
entrainment (water entrained in 
product or waste). 
Water recycle/reuse rate = total 
water reused + recycled / Total 
water utilized
Water use efficiency = total water 
reused + recycled / (Total water 
utilization – Discharged Water)
TOTAL INPUTS
291,682
WATER INPUTS
TOTAL OUTPUTS
295,329
WATER OUTPUTS
TOTAL RECYCLED/REUSED
1,526,886
OPERATIONS
Processing Plants
Tailings/Waste Storage
Storage
Treatment
RECYCLED RATE
84%
Most water needs 
are met with the
RECYCLING 

AND REUSE
of water within 
our operations
89% WATER USE EFFICIENCY 
2022 WATER BALANCE (THOUSAND M3)
35+23+12+19+11+J
67+33+J
Groundwater	
35%
Surface water	
23%
Sea water	
12%
Stormwater	
19%
Third-party sources	 11%
Consumption	
67%
Discharge (off-site)	 33%
View more data in 
the Performance 
Data Section
 90
Water Use Efficiency
Our objective to maintain high rates of recycled or reused water remains 
unchanged. In 2022, our total water usage increased; however our new water 
withdrawal was relatively flat compared to the prior year. Our total water reused/
recycled increased by about 15% in 2022 compared to 2021, largely due to 
higher production rates at Morenci, Cerro Verde and PT-FI. Our operations used 
a total of 1,818,568 thousand cubic meters of water, including new withdrawals of 
291,682 thousand cubic meters. Of our total water use, 84% was from recycled 
or reused sources. By accounting for discharge quantities of 97,347 thousand 
cubic meters, our water use efficiency was 89% in 2022. In recognition of the 
fact that water considerations are unique to our different regions and sites, we 
have further enhanced our water data disclosures to provide greater visibility 
into our water consumption and performance at a regional level, available in the 
Performance Data section of this report. 
WATER PERFORMANCE
(THOUSAND CUBIC METERS)
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
Total New Water Withdrawn1
310,620
302,564
261,299
296,805
291,682
Total Water Recycled/Reused
1,377,971
1,408,513
1,231,053
1,325,184
1,526,886
Total Utilized Water
(Withdrawn + Recycled/Reused)
1,688,591
1,711,077
1,492,352
1,621,989
1,818,568
Water Recycle/Reuse Rate2
82%
82%
82%
82%
84%
Total Water Discharged3
106,183
95,885
101,963
106,127
97,347
Total Water Consumption
192,663
192,792
166,752
184,714
197,983
Change in Water Storage Volume
11,774
13,887
-7,416
5,965
-3,647
Water Use Efficiency4 (%)
87%
87%
89%
87%
89%
1.	 New water withdrawal includes new water that is received or extracted by operation and used for the first time. New water withdrawals include 
high quality freshwater and lower quality water and are categorized by type: groundwater, surface water, stormwater, sea water or third-party 
water. Water withdrawals exclude water diverted away from operational areas without use.	
	
	
	
2.	 Water recycle/reuse rate = (total water recycled + reused) / total water utilized.	
	
	
	
3.	 Water discharged is water removed from an operation and returned to the environment or a third party after meeting all required treatment and 
discharge standards. 	
	
	
	
4.	 Water use efficiency rate = total water recycled + reused / (total water utilization – discharged water).	
	
	
	
RECYCLED WATER VS. NEW WATER USE
THOUSAND CUBIC METERS
Recycled/Reused Water
New Water Withdrawn
2018 2019 2020
2022
2,000,000
1,500,000
1,000,000
500,000
0
2021
We utilized
5X MORE
recycled water 
than new water 
in 2022.
View more data in 
the Performance 
Data Section
 91
RESILIENCE AND PREPARING FOR THE LONG TERM 
Some of our operations are situated in challenging environments where 
enhancing resilience to the impacts of water-related risks is already a critical 
part of our daily operations. This includes the health, safety, and production 
risks of heavy rains, arid environments, or heat-related occupational illness. 
To prepare our operations for potentially severe weather-related impacts 
in the future, we aim to take a holistic approach to risk management and 
preventive planning. 
Company-wide processes to address risks, including climate, seek to cover the 
full life cycle of our assets — from a pre-project sustainability review process 
to resiliency planning for reclamation and closure.
As noted in the Climate section, as part of our effort to understand longer-term 
climate-related risks, in 2021, we completed our first global climate scenario 
analysis which considered potential physical risks across three different 
scenarios in 2030 and 2050. Several of the potential physical risks identified 
are water-related.
Following our global climate scenario analysis, in 2022 we conducted several 
additional third-party studies to better understand how potential climate-
related impacts could materialize at a more localized level. Our regional 
climate model evaluation work not only updated climate metrics, but also 
provided a rich database that was used to perform detailed trend and 
statistical frequency analyses. 
These detailed evaluations were conducted in partnership with Applied 
Weather Associates (AWA) — a specialist hydrometeorological consulting firm 
with detailed knowledge of extreme precipitation at our sites — to analyze the 
primary regional climate model outputs for our global operations. AWA used 
several different methods to test for trends and shifts in extreme storm events, 
including trend analysis on historical data collected from regional precipitation 
stations as well as model projections over different durations (e.g., one-
day, three-day and annual). Upon completion of these analyses, the results 
were reviewed at the corporate and site-levels with cross-functional teams 
including members of our tailings, water management, and environmental 
groups. The aim of these reviews is to educate and provide a basis for decision 
making to site-level teams when they are faced with water management 
decisions. We have completed 12 detailed site-specific studies, including both 
operational and non-operational sites, and the process is underway for two 
more sites in 2023. 
Subsequent to this work, we plan to perform sensitivity evaluations of our 
facilities using the detailed projection analysis. If a significant increase in 
precipitation magnitude is found in the one-day or three-day maximums, site 
teams will examine the potential effects of increased storm precipitation and 
consider the need for changes to the overall design of the facility or associated 
infrastructure. We have initially focused the sensitivity evaluations on our tailings 
facilities and plan to expand this work to cover other infrastructure in the future.
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
Company-wide processes to address risks, 
including climate, seek to cover the full life 
cycle of our assets — from a pre-project 
sustainability review process to resiliency 
planning for reclamation and closure. 
Salar de Ascotán salt flats near 
our El Abra operation, Chile.
 92
BIODIVERSITY
WHY IT MATTERS
Biodiversity is critical to maintaining resilient ecosystems, which provide people, flora and fauna with valuable resources 
like food, water and the habitats necessary to support life. The impacts of climate change, such as prolonged droughts, 
wildfires and sea level rise, are having a significant impact on biodiversity globally.
OUR APPROACH
FCX understands that the nature of our mining and processing activities means we are responsible for management 
of our land and associated biodiversity. We are committed to proactively managing and mitigating the impacts of our 
operations on biodiversity, land and surrounding ecosystems, which includes effectively identifying and managing 
biodiversity-related risks.
We focus on biodiversity and land management across the life cycle of our operations. Our sites and subject matter 
experts on our corporate team collaborate to evaluate each potential project area in order to identify and map key 
features related to biodiversity, cultural resources, water resources and various other environmental factors before the 
project can proceed. Biodiversity and conservation are also key components of our reclamation plans and activities at 
our sites.
In 2022, we fully adopted across all sites the mitigation hierarchy approach — a framework that emphasizes best 
practices for managing biodiversity and ecosystems through the avoidance, minimization, restoration and offsetting of 
impacts. Through consistent and rigorous application of the mitigation hierarchy, we aim to manage risks and potential 
impacts with the long-term ambition of No Net Loss for new mines and major expansion projects at existing mines. 
Notably, in 2022, we also developed a mitigation hierarchy process beyond major expansion projects to include smaller 
projects and deployed site-specific trainings during the year. 
We recognize the mitigation hierarchy is most effective when implemented during the earliest phases of project 
planning to help maximize opportunities for avoidance and minimization of impacts. We have integrated the hierarchy 
into our existing project development process and trained our environmental and operational teams to routinely apply it.
We also are committed to promoting opportunities to contribute to the conservation and enhancement of biodiversity 
both within and beyond our operational boundaries. Our conservation initiatives aim to produce benefits for both 
biodiversity and people, build trust and support our ability to operate. We seek to engage our employees, local 
communities and other interested stakeholders in conservation work. We foster diverse partnerships with global 
stakeholders across public and private sectors, as well as civil society, to achieve greater accountability and promote 
the long-term efficacy of our biodiversity projects. These collaborations often serve as the basis for our community 
outreach and education opportunities for learners of all ages — both of which are designed to help build capacity. 
Please see our biodiversity highlights table on page 95 for examples of these initiatives.
OFFSET
RESTORE/REHABILITATE
MINIMIZE
AVOID
NO NET LOSS
MITIGATION HIERARCHY
 93
Policies & Programs
Our Environmental Policy states our commitment to contribute to the 
conservation of biodiversity, implement the mitigation hierarchy to assess 
risks and impacts to nature, and commit not to explore or mine at any 
United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) 
World Heritage Sites. The Environmental Management System (EMS) at 
each site is the framework for understanding the potential impacts of 
our operations on biodiversity. Our Environmental Policy and EMS are 
complemented by the following:
•	 Our operational practices are in alignment with the ICMM Position 
Statement on Mining and Protected Areas.
•	 We are committed to formalizing and publicly disclosing biodiversity 
management plans for Cerro Verde, El Abra, Morenci and PT-FI (Grasberg 
operations). We selected these four sites based on their physical footprint, 
local biodiversity resources and/or proximity to biodiversity resources. 
We aim to publish these plans by the end of 2023, which will summarize 
the key risks, programs and strategies regarding important biodiversity 
resources within and adjacent to the operation. Additionally, we plan 
to evaluate the Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures as a 
potential tool to identify, assess, respond and disclose our nature-related 
issues in the future.
•	 We participate in the Conservation Certification program of the WHC, 
which formally recognizes meaningful biodiversity conservation, 
environmental education and community outreach programs. Seventeen 
of our operating sites and facilities currently are certified through WHC, 
15 of which are recognized with gold-tier certifications. In 2022, Tohono, 
Port Nickel, Copper Queen Branch, Fort Madison, Safford, Henderson, 
Tyrone and El Abra operation were recertified through WHC.
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
We aim to avoid or minimize impacts 
from our operations on biodiversity, 
while contributing to the conservation 
of biodiversity beyond our boundaries.
Community greenhouse near 
our Climax operation, Colorado.
 94
AMERICAS
We implement a variety of programs and strategies at our operations that 
seek to proactively identify and mitigate biodiversity risks while promoting 
conservation opportunities in collaboration with government agencies and 
other voluntary opportunities. All of our North American sites implement Wildlife 
Protection Plans. These plans are based on adaptive management principles to 
effectively address biodiversity risks resulting from operational and ecological 
changes at the sites. Several sites (Chino, NM; Morenci, AZ; Tyrone, NM; and 
Tohono, AZ) also implement risk-based Avian Protection Plans that focus 
specifically on minimizing potential risks to migratory birds.
In North America, we conduct regular biodiversity surveys, and that 
information is shared with regulators and other interested parties. In Arizona 
and New Mexico, we have mature monitoring programs, including for 
populations of endangered birds and fish on and adjacent to our sites that are 
contributing to the knowledge base on native species. In 2022, in consultation 
with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Bureau of Land Management, and 
U.S. Forest Service, we continued the development of an additional voluntary 
management plan for the threatened, yellow-billed cuckoo and its habitat 
along Eagle Creek at Morenci, and we continued to work collaboratively with 
relevant governmental agencies by sharing our knowledge of the area. 
In South America, our El Abra operation in Chile and Cerro Verde operations 
in Peru have biodiversity management and action plans, which include 
programs focused on protecting and enhancing biodiversity within the area of 
influence of their mining operations and mitigating the impacts on biodiversity 
resources. We have regular communication with relevant Chilean and 
Peruvian authorities about biodiversity and also with our host communities 
and the Indigenous communities surrounding El Abra Salar de Ascotán’s 
well field to develop collaborative agreements aligned with improving the 
ecosystem of a spring. In addition, the biodiversity program at El Abra includes 
the Salar de Ascotán's salt flat area. 
Education & Biodiversity Initiatives
We contribute to the conservation and enhancement of biodiversity both 
within and beyond our operational boundaries. 
In Peru, the team at Cerro Verde brought educational activities to local school 
children in collaboration with the Peruvian Program of Bat Conservation to 
celebrate Bat Month, and the team has also developed educational videos to 
help students identify and protect the long-snouted bat. At PERUMIN’s 36th 
Annual Mining Convention in 2022, the team shared videos about long-
snouted bats and Guanacos to conference attendees. 
In Arizona, the company hosted “Beat Back Buffelgrass” events near its Sierrita 
operations in which community volunteers removed the noxious invasive 
species from West Desert Trails. Additionally, our Native American Affairs 
Team visited the Tohono O’odham Nation Health Care Services’ pollinator 
and traditional food garden project along with Ajo Center for Sustainable 
Agriculture and the Watershed Management Group. The goal of the visit was 
to develop a collaborative plan for green infrastructure and pollinator-friendly 
plants for the garden. These groups also collaborated to develop an online 
workshop around rain gardens, traditional foods and cultural heritage.
The education and biodiversity initiatives described above are not inclusive of 
all of the educational opportunities we provide across our global operations. For 
more information on our educational initiatives, please see the below table and 
Indonesia Biodiversity Education & Outreach Programs described on page 96.
MORENCI RECEIVES AWARDS FOR ROCKY MOUNTAIN 
BIGHORN SHEEP CONSERVATION
In 2022, our Morenci operation in Arizona were recognized for their Rocky 
Mountain Bighorn Sheep Conservation Program through two awards: 
the Mammals Award from WHC and the Sustainability, Preservation and 
Diversity in Environment Award from the Arizona Mining Association. Both 
awards recognize Morenci’s excellence in bighorn sheep protection and 
conservation education initiatives. Morenci has successfully contributed to 
the protection of bighorn sheep by reducing vehicle collisions and other 
dangerous human-wildlife interactions. Through the site’s long-standing 
collaboration with the Arizona Game & Fish Department, Morenci has been 
instrumental in capturing and translocating bighorn sheep from the mine 
and its vicinity to supplement small, existing populations and to reestablish 
populations in historically occupied habitats in Arizona. 
 95
Americas Biodiversity Performance
We continue to conduct site-specific, multi-year biodiversity programs either voluntarily or for regulatory purposes. 
These programs are designed to address the most significant biodiversity issues at each site, including the following 
select highlights: 
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
SITE/LOCATION
2022 BIODIVERSITY HIGHLIGHTS
Ajo (Arizona) 
Ajo staff and partners from the Ajo Chamber of Commerce, the International Sonoran Desert Alliance, 
the State of Arizona’s Watershed Management Group and members of the community co-designed 
and installed a native pollinator and wildflower garden at Triangle Park. FCX operations in Ajo have 
been discontinued.
Safford (Arizona) 
Safford successfully planted more than 100 native trees, shrubs and grasses as part of a restoration 
planting in the Pima area in collaboration with the Gila Watershed Partnership. 
Sierrita (Arizona) 
Sierrita collaborated with conservation partners at Bat Conservation International and Borderlands 
Restoration Network to plant hundreds of native agaves on the West Desert Trails, an 1,800-acre area 
of company-owned property that is open to the public for recreation. These agaves support nectar-
feeding bat species that migrate between Central Mexico and the southwestern U.S. Sierrita received 
the Desert Project Award from WHC for their restoration and habitat enhancement efforts.
Tohono (Arizona)
Tohono engaged partners at Bat Conservation International to conduct population monitoring of the 
California Leaf-Nosed Bat colony on-site. Ongoing surveys indicate that the population is robust and 
is thriving in their habitat.
Cerro Verde (Peru)
Cerro Verde’s biodiversity program aims to advance species conservation and improve critical habitat for 
multiple plant and animal species. More than 30,000 plants from 20 different species are maintained in 
the site’s greenhouse each year. During 2022, approximately 1,700 individual plants from seven succulent 
species were rescued from areas that we expect to disturb in the future and relocated them to other 
areas. These plants had a 90% survival rate.
El Abra (Chile)
El Abra supported a study of the Philippii Toad (Telmatobius philippii) with the aim of identifying ideal 
habitat for the placement of artificial structures to protect these endangered amphibians from the 
extreme environmental conditions that exist in the surroundings of the Salar de Ascotán.
Tyrone (New Mexico)
Tyrone staff co-developed a riparian education curriculum to teach high school students various 
methods for wildlife surveying and biological assessments and to increase awareness surrounding 
the Southwest Willow Flycatcher conservation and mitigation efforts.
Henderson (Colorado)
Henderson worked with WHC to develop pollinator lesson plans and activities, customized 
presentations, pre- and post- event evaluations and other educational materials for Henderson’s 
Earth Day. Henderson staff engaged 120 K-6 students from a local elementary school to celebrate 
Earth Day and Global Volunteer Month.
We support Bighorn Sheep protection 
and conservation through education 
and protection initiatives at our 
Morenci operation, Arizona.
 96
INDONESIA
PT-FI’s operations and support area encompass multiple ecosystems and 
host one of the richest and most biodiverse regions in the world. From the 
mangrove forests on the coasts, the land blends into a swamp forest, then into 
the Lowland rainforests, heath forests, montane forests, and finally, subalpine 
and alpine grasslands and forests in the Highlands.
The PT-FI area is adjacent to the Lorentz National Park, the largest protected 
area in Southeast Asia and the only protected area in the world that 
incorporates continuous intact tracts of ecosystems from alpine to tropical 
marine environments, including extensive lowland wetlands. In 1999, Lorentz 
National Park was declared a World Heritage Site by the UNESCO.
Conserving and protecting Papua’s biodiversity and ecosystems is a high 
priority for both PT-FI and FCX. Since 1994, PT-FI has collaborated with national 
and international scientists on comprehensive surveys of vegetation, mammals, 
birds, amphibians, reptiles, freshwater and estuarine fish, aquatic insects and 
terrestrial insects. These surveys help us better understand the ecosystems 
and potential mine-related impacts on biodiversity. Using information from 
the surveys, we develop appropriate biodiversity conservation programs 
using principles of restoration ecology for rehabilitation and reclamation of 
disturbed areas in the Grasberg minerals district. We seek to establish strong 
partnerships with multiple stakeholder groups involved in conservation and 
natural resource management, including governments, NGOs, universities, 
research organizations and citizens. 
In 2022, PT-FI conducted a workshop to update its five-year (2023-2027) 
PT-FI Biodiversity Strategic Action Plan and incorporate requirements 
of the Indonesian Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan. In addition to 
representatives from PT-FI, third-party participants included research 
organizations, universities, environmental consultants and government 
representatives. Together they evaluated PT-FI’s current monitoring programs 
and reviewed compliance with the Government of Indonesia-approved 
Environmental Management Plan and Monitoring Plan documents. Through 
the workshop, it was affirmed that PT-FI is meeting its commitments. The 
workshop also produced a set of recommendations to strengthen PT-FI’s 
biodiversity programs, which the team is reviewing for incorporation into future 
Biodiversity Strategic Action Plans. Additionally, as a part of PT-FI’s 2021-2022 
environmental audit, a review was undertaken to examine and to determine 
the extent to which PT-FI’s environment-related activities have fully complied 
with its obligations of environmental management. The audit included a review 
of the Environmental Management Plan and Monitoring Plan documents as 
well as other regulatory plans. An executive summary of the audit, including 
the audit recommendations is available on our website.
Biodiversity Education & Outreach Programs
Education and outreach are major focuses of PT-FI’s biodiversity efforts, 
including construction of wildlife sanctuaries and the creation of the Natural 
Succession Discovery Park on a former tailings disposal area to serve as an 
outdoor education classroom. PT-FI has established wildlife facilities, where we 
temporarily house animals who were victims of illegal trading and a butterfly 
sanctuary, where we hatch and emerge endemic butterflies. We also partner 
with local schools for education outreach and provides internships at an on-
site nursery for high school and college students. 
For example, PT-FI hosts an Environmental Prince and Princess program, 
which advances environmental knowledge and the development of soft skills 
for junior high school students. Last year’s program garnered interest from 
nearly 200 students from 23 schools in the Mimika Regency, and this year’s 
program had 360 student applicants from 18 schools.
Additionally, PT-FI invites schools to visit its operations, both in-person and 
virtually. During 2022, approximately 1,200 students visited in-person and 
approximately 300 additional students participated in virtual classes. PT-FI 
reached a total of 2,815 students and countless community members through 
its environmental events in 2022, including events on Earth Day, National Waste 
Awareness Day, Environmental Day, Ozone Day and National Flora and Fauna Day.
Mangrove growth near our Grasberg 
minerals district, Indonesia.
 97
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
Research & Monitoring
PT-FI conducts extensive research and monitoring in area ecosystems ranging 
from approximately 4,000 meters above sea level to coastal and marine areas. 
For information on environmental monitoring of our tailings management 
system at PT-FI, please see the Tailings Management section. Routine flora and 
fauna monitoring is conducted through collaboration with consultants, research 
organizations and universities. Existing biodiversity research on Central Papua 
has been limited, with most research and publications available focusing on 
Papua New Guinea, which is to the east of Central Papua, Indonesia. 
Research on the New Guinea Highland Wild Dog, known as the “singing 
dog,” continued in 2022 with two Indonesian universities conducting field 
research. The University of Gadjah Mada Yogyakarta is seeking to understand 
the species’ roaming patterns, range and DNA similarities. They installed 
23 cameras in the Grasberg operating area and identified 32 Highland 
Wild Dogs among eight different packs. The team collected samples from 
the dogs to analyze their DNA and installed GPS tracking collars on three 
dogs. Collaboration between Cenderawasih University and the New Guinea 
Highland Wild Dog Foundation based in the U.S. conducted research focused 
on feeding preferences, health conditions and behavior. Their work included 
collecting samples, understanding how Highland Wild Dogs react with 
humans and exploring social structure and behavior of Highland Wild Dogs 
near our operations, compared to dogs from other areas or captivity.
Revegetation, Reclamation & Restoration
Since mining operations started, PT-FI has reclaimed more than 472 hectares 
of overburden stockpile areas, including more than 17 hectares in 2022, with 
native plant species in the Highlands of Central Papua. PT-FI established 463 
monitoring plots, each of which is three meters by three meters, to monitor 
and assess growth of vegetation in the reclamation area. 
In coastal areas throughout the world, mangroves are decreasing due to 
erosion or due to the conversion of the mangrove for agriculture. PT-FI is 
actively working to establish mangrove habitats in suitable areas created 
by sedimentation at the Modified Ajkwa Deposition Area (ModADA) and is 
also exploring opportunities to increase available mangrove habitat in open 
water along the coastline. In particular, the Ajkwa and Waii Islands in the 
Ajkwa Estuary in the Lowlands have seen accelerated mangrove colonization 
resulting from approximately 399 hectares of total mangrove planting since 
mining operations began, including 82 hectares in 2022. 
In 2021, as agreed with Indonesia's Ministry of Environment and Forestry 
(MoEF), PT-FI agreed to a watershed rehabilitation project on approximately 
4,232 hectares of forest area in the Jayapura Regency of Central Papua. 
PT-FI, in collaboration with local contractors, began planting native species 
in the forest area and will maintain the land until it will be handed over 
to the Environmental and Forestry Agency of Central Papua who will be 
responsible for long-term maintenance. The program officially commenced 
in November 2022 with a tree planting ceremony, and at the end of 2022, 
168,718 seedlings had been planted covering an area of 153 hectares.
Protection of Fauna
Fauna from Central Papua often become the object of illegal trade. 
Countering illegal wildlife trade is a priority for Central Papua’s natural 
resource agencies and part of PT-FI’s commitment to biodiversity 
conservation. For many years, PT-FI recovered injured birds and other 
animals from the illegal trade of endangered species with the aim of 
releasing them back into the wild. To date, PT-FI has assisted in releasing 
more than 51,173 Central Papua endemic wildlife, including 50,871 pig-nosed 
turtles, 79 other reptiles, 192 birds and 31 mammals.
PT-FI cooperates with the Indonesia Animal Rescue Center, Papua Regional 
Police, Forest Protection and Nature Conservation, Forest Rangers, Forestry 
Department, Lorentz National Park Center and Wasur National Park Center to 
repatriate animals seized from the illegal trade of endangered species to their 
appropriate habitats. In 2015, at Milepost 21 — a biodiversity conservation, land 
use, and research center established over a 100-hectare former tailings area 
— PT-FI established an animal transit enclosure which houses confiscated 
endemic Central Papuan wildlife at the request of Papua’s Natural Resources 
Conservation Center (BBKSDA Papua). The project was designed in line 
with PT-FI efforts to build capacity and establish stronger collaboration with 
the local government, while PT-FI will continue to provide support, such as 
manpower and facilities, for the rehabilitation and release of animals. PT-FI 
continues to work with BBKSDA Papua and NGOs to explore certifying this 
facility with the Republic of Indonesia. 
 98
TAILINGS MANAGEMENT
WHY IT MATTERS 
Effective tailings management is critical to mining safely, protecting people and the environment and to maintaining 
social license to operate. Tailings are the finely ground natural rock particles or by-products that remain after the 
economically valuable minerals have been processed and extracted from the mined ore. Typically, tailings are 
transported from processing facilities to management and storage facilities. We recognize the potential failure 
of tailings facilities and other impoundments at any of our mining operations could cause severe or catastrophic 
damage that could result in loss of life, property or environmental damage. 
OUR APPROACH 
The health and safety of our workforce, host communities and the protection of the environment are fundamental to 
our extensive tailings management program and approach. Our objective is to have zero fatalities, zero catastrophic 
failures and zero unplanned discharges from any of our tailings facilities. 
FCX has comprehensive measures in place to ensure our facilities are designed, built, operated and monitored 
to minimize risk to employees, neighboring host communities and the environment. These measures include 
substantial internal and external engineering expertise, technological monitoring (including remote sensing), 
local responsibility and corporate and independent third-party oversight. Our safeguards generally fall within four 
categories that include: (1) good engineering practices and safe designs, (2) rigorous adherence to construction 
and operational parameters through monitoring and use of technology, (3) multi-tiered oversight, and (4) adherence 
to practices grounded in continuous improvement and learning from past experiences, including industry failures 
and best practices. The safeguards are effectively implemented through the promotion of open and ongoing 
communication throughout the organization and action at all levels. 
We remain focused on the safe execution of our tailings management systems by maintaining robust, multi-tiered 
governance of our tailings programs. Our Board and executive management are firmly committed to providing the 
necessary financial and technical resources to maintain the safety and integrity of our tailings management systems 
globally, with a focus on risk management and continuous improvement.
FCX’s Tailings Management Policy outlines our continued commitment to managing our tailings responsibly and 
effectively across our sites globally. The policy also includes our commitment to implement the Global Industry 
Standard on Tailings Management (the Tailings Standard) at our tailings storage facilities that have not been deemed 
"safely closed."
TAILINGS MANAGEMENT 
& STEWARDSHIP
MULTI-TIERED
OVERSIGHT
MONITORING
& TECHNOLOGY
LEARNING FROM
PAST EXPERIENCES
COMMUNICATION & ACTION
ENGINEERING
& DESIGN
 99
AMERICAS 
FCX subsidiaries in the Americas currently operate 15 active tailings storage 
facilities (TSFs), including 13 in the U.S. and 2 in Peru. We also manage 48 
TSFs in the U.S. that are inactive or closed and another nine TSFs that were 
deemed “safely closed” as of January 31, 2023, according to the definition in 
the Tailings Standard. 
FCX invests significant time and resources to monitor its TSFs effectively. This 
includes a multi-tiered, continuous review and inspection process that results 
in recommended actions, which we track until implemented and resolved. 
We regularly assess, evaluate, customize and adopt emerging technologies to 
identify opportunities in the way we monitor our tailings facilities. The increased 
use of remote technologies combined with the development of web-based 
and mobile computing applications provides us with timely data, which our 
engineers and operators, both on-site and off-site, use to make decisions. 
For example, our engineers use satellite imagery to monitor the location of 
tailings ponds in relation to the crests of the embankments. Access to near-
daily satellite imagery allows site-based engineers to safely monitor the 
location of these ponds and more efficiently plan their daily work. 
Our engineers and external Engineers of Record (EoRs) also obtain data from 
various sensors, such as piezometers, through online reporting systems that 
have capabilities to alert engineers and managers of any variances outside of 
expected instrument behavior. These data inform our Early Indicator Dashboard 
— an internal management tool we use to aggregate and communicate 
critical measures of our facilities and to track performance against third-party 
recommendations, key performance indicators and other metrics. 
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
NUMBER OF TAILINGS IMPOUNDMENTS1
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
Active2
19
18
17
16
15
Inactive or Closed3
55
58
56
52
48
Safely Closed4
0
0
0
5
9
Total Tailings Impoundments
74
76
73
73
72
1. 	 Tailings impoundment counts include non-operating sites and are reviewed at least annually and updated 
according to construction of new facilities, changes in operating conditions, closure, business transactions, and 
legal reviews. FCX provides a full disclosure of tailings facilities, location, status, construction type and hazard 
categorization available at fcx.com/sustainability/environment/tailings-americas_documents. 
2.	 In 2022, the status of one TSF at Morenci was changed to inactive.	
3. 	 In 2022, one TSF at Morenci was fully integrated into another TSF, and therefore, the total tailings 
impoundments count reduced.
4. 	 "Safely closed" is defined by the Tailings Standard and requires confirmation by an external independent 
reviewer and an internal Accountable Executive. While many of our inactive/closed facilities have not yet 
gone through the specific review process to confirm the "safely closed" designation, we consistently apply our 
tailings management system to all facilities to support their safe management. 	
	
We are in the process of 
implementing the Tailings Standard 
at our Sierrita operation in Arizona.
 100
TAILINGS STANDARD IMPLEMENTATION 
In August 2020, the co-conveners of the Global Tailings Review, which included 
ICMM, published the Tailings Standard which is the first global standard for 
tailings management that can be applied to existing and future tailings storage 
facilities. The Tailings Standard includes 77 requirements across six key areas – 
design, construction, operation and monitoring of tailings facilities, management 
and governance, use of integrated multi-disciplinary knowledge, engaging with 
affected stakeholders, emergency response and long-term recovery, and public 
disclosure. As an ICMM member, FCX is committed to implementing the Tailings 
Standard by August 2023 for all TSFs with “extreme” or “very high” consequence 
classifications based on credible failure modes and by August 2025 for all 
other TSFs. Although our existing tailings management system and associated 
programs have evolved over many years and are mature and robust, in 2022, 
FCX continued to advance conformance with the Tailings Standard for our 
Americas TSFs in line with this commitment. 
Consequence Classification Review & Tailings Standard Implementation
An important step to demonstrating conformance with the Tailings Standard is 
reassessing the consequence classifications of each of our TSFs, based on the 
credibility of potential tailings facility failure scenarios in alignment with the 
Tailings Standard definitions. 
Prior to the Tailings Standard, we classified our TSFs following the Canadian 
Dam Association’s (CDA) Dam Safety Guidelines (2013), and determined 
classifications based on hypothetical worst-case tailings facility failure 
scenarios. This was a conservative approach that did not consider the 
credibility of a given tailings facility failure scenario. As a result of using the 
CDA classification method, a high proportion of our TSFs were previously 
classified as “extreme” or “very high” risk. 
GOVERNANCE - AMERICAS 
In addition to the CRC’s oversight, FCX maintains multi-tiered oversight 
of TSFs at its active operations, which includes: 
•	 Corporate Senior Leadership – Executive leadership that 
participates in major decisions related to the management 
program, including allocation of resources for TSF-related 
operations, initiatives and projects. 
•	 Accountable Executive (AE) – Chief Operating Officer who 
reports directly to the CEO and is accountable for the safe 
management of tailings facilities and for minimizing the social and 
environmental consequences of any TSF failures. 
•	 Responsible Tailings Facility Engineer (RTFE) – Internal 
engineers appointed by AEs and responsible for the integrity of 
assigned TSFs. Each RTFE provides technical expertise, manages 
risk and liaises with the external Engineer of Record. Corporate 
discipline experts provide regular support to RTFEs. 
•	 Site Tailings Management, Engineers and Operators – Internal 
team that implements the management program and regularly 
monitors, identifies and addresses potential risks. 
•	 Engineer of Record (EoR) – External engineer who provides 
expert design and engineering analysis, technical support, 
inspection, review and guidance to support an RTFE in achieving 
design intent of their assigned TSF. 
•	 Tailings Stewardship Team (TST) – Third-party engineers 
and internal experts who inspect all tailings facilities, review 
documents and monitoring data, identify potential deficiencies and 
recommend corrective actions. 
•	 Independent Tailings Review Boards (ITRB) – Third-party, 
internationally known expert panels who provide independent 
opinions and guidance on the physical integrity, safety and 
performance of TSFs and has access to corporate senior leadership. 
For closed and inactive sites, we have a similar oversight structure 
that reports through our vice president and chief sustainability officer 
and includes the same roles for site-level engineers, EoRs, TSTs and 
ITRB (or senior independent technical reviewer) structures. 
Tailings storage facility at our 
Cerro Verde operation, Peru.
 101
Conversely, FCX’s updated consequence classification approach is based on 
the Tailings Standard and does consider the credibility of a potential tailings 
facility failure scenario. FCX is implementing this classification approach 
by first determining what potential tailings facility failures are credible, and 
then assessing the likelihood and consequence of such a failure occurring. 
The highest consequence assigned to the resulting credible failure 
scenarios is used as the basis to define the consequence classification for 
a given TSF. The consequence classification process is robust and requires 
comprehensive risk assessment reviews led by an external or corporate 
subject matter expert facilitator and multi-stakeholder agreement including 
from the site-specific subject matter experts, RTFE, EoR and ITRB. The AE is 
required to provide final approval for the consequence classifications. 
We have completed our consequence classification review at our 15 active 
TSFs and are in the process of reviewing these with the appropriate AE. 
Based on work completed thus far, our Morenci operation in Arizona is our 
only site that has TSFs that are classified as “extreme” or “very high” based on 
the updated Tailings Standard consequence classification methodology. We 
are currently on track to complete conformance with the Tailings Standard 
requirements at Morenci by the August 2023 deadline as agreed to by the 
ICMM membership. While our Cerro Verde, Chino, Climax, Henderson and 
Sierrita TSFs are not classified as “extreme” or “very high” following the 
updated consequence classification review, the team is currently working to 
complete conformance for these sites ahead of the August 2025 timeline.
Later in 2023, FCX expects to publish our updated Tailings Standard-aligned 
consequence classifications for all active, inactive and closed TSFs that were 
originally classified as “extreme” or “very high” (including the active TSFs at 
our sites in Arizona, Colorado and Peru) as well as the required disclosures to 
demonstrate our conformance with the Tailings Standard for Morenci. Work 
also continues in 2023 to review and update the consequence classifications 
in alignment with the Tailings Standard for the remainder of our lower 
consequence active, inactive and closed TSFs, which we plan to disclose in 
the future.
In parallel with our consequence classification work, we have been driving 
towards conformance with the Tailings Standard across our sites. We have 
developed site-specific implementation plans in collaboration with each RTFE, 
conducted risk assessments, obtained social and environmental baseline 
information and developed and deployed an assessment and audit tool to 
document our final conformance assessments. Sites with TSFs with higher 
consequence classifications will require further stakeholder engagement, 
which includes partnering with emergency response and preparedness 
organizations, local government leaders and engaging with host community 
members. We have been advancing preparation for this work, including 
enhancing our internal emergency response planning. During the year, we 
completed internal emergency response table-top exercises for eight of our 
sites, a subset of which will have external engagements on preparedness in 
the future. To read more about our Emergency Response Planning, see the 
Health, Safety & Well-Being section of this report. 
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
SAFE CLOSURE DESIGNATION
As part of our Tailings Standard conformance, we are working to 
demonstrate that our closed TSFs are “safely closed” as defined by the 
Tailings Standard. "Safely closed" means that the TSF has been deemed to 
pose no ongoing significant risk to people or the environment. 
For a TSF to be designated as “safely closed,” FCX conducts an internal 
review, including a suite of detailed technical evaluations and risk 
assessments. Each TSF must pass an internal review, including confirmation 
by the appropriate AE, after which the information is presented to an ITRB 
or senior independent technical reviewer for their independent review and 
agreement that the TSF should be designated as “safely closed.” 
While TSFs in “safe closure” are not subject to the Tailings Standard, FCX’s 
“safely closed” TSFs remain under our tailings management system and 
are subject to ongoing monitoring and surveillance. Furthermore, as 
FCX owns the land on which these TSFs are located, we do not plan on 
transferring ownership to either the government or another party. As of 
January 31, 2023, we had achieved the “safely closed” designation for nine 
TSFs at Miami and Ajo.
 102
INDONESIA 
The effective and safe management of tailings continues to be one of PT-FI’s 
most important environmental priorities. PT-FI operates a controlled riverine 
tailings management system, which was implemented based on methods 
approved and permitted by the Indonesia government.
PT-FI’s controlled riverine tailings management system uses an unnavigable 
river to transport the tailings from the concentrator in the Highlands along 
with natural sediments to a large engineered and managed deposition area 
in the Lowlands. The Aghawagon/Otomona River was chosen for tailings 
transportation from the mill to the tailings deposition area because that part of 
the river is unnavigable and not used for potable water, agriculture, fishing or 
other domestic or commercial uses. 
Situated in the Lowlands, the Modified Ajkwa Deposition Area or ModADA, 
is the containment and retention system for tailings produced at the 
concentrator, as well as other sediments transported down the river. The 
ModADA is the terrestrial portion of the tailings management deposition 
area covering an area of approximately 219 square kilometers. Below the 
ModADA to the south is the estuary portion of the tailings management area 
encompassing approximately 220 square kilometers.
PT-FI has designed and constructed approximately 85 kilometers of levees on 
both sides of the ModADA to laterally contain the depositional footprint of the 
tailings and natural sediment within the approved boundary. Quantities of finer 
tailings and other sediments deposit in the estuary and the sea to the south.
PT-FI continues to employ tailings management techniques that are aimed at 
enhancing the depositions of tailings onshore within the ModADA.
GOVERNANCE - INDONESIA 
PT-FI implements comprehensive and robust governance and oversight 
processes of its tailings management system. In addition to regular 
internal and external audits and assessments, oversight of the controlled 
riverine tailings management system is conducted by: 
•	 FCX Corporate Senior Leadership – Participates in key 
decisions and provides resources to site management. 
•	 FCX Corporate Tailings and Water Team – Technical resources 
that provide support and assists with guidance and direction for 
site tailings team and associated program initiatives. 
•	 Site Tailings Management, Engineers and Operators – Internal 
team that implements the program and regularly monitors, 
identifies and addresses potential risks associated with the 
ModADA and coastal zone areas. 
•	 External Design Engineer – External resource provides design, 
ongoing engineering support, periodic inspections and levee 
construction quality review. 
•	 ModADA Management Board – Multi-disciplinary expert panel 
that convenes yearly to provide oversight and recommendations 
to PT-FI leadership and engineering teams on priority activities 
including safety, risks associated with the ModADA and coastal 
zone, the structural integrity of the levees, geochemical stability 
of the deposited sediments, environmental considerations and 
stakeholder engagement. 
 103
BEST SITE-SPECIFIC TAILINGS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
PT-FI’s mines and concentrator complex are located in the mountainous 
area of the Highlands at an elevation of more than 2,700 meters 
above sea level, which presents limited options for effective tailings 
management. Various tailings management options were studied in 
detail during the early phase of PT-FI’s mining operations, in particular, 
when PT-FI developed plans to increase its ore production and 
processing capacity in the 1990s.
Given the unique and challenging site-specific topographical, hydrological 
and geotechnical conditions at PT-FI, the controlled riverine tailings 
management system remains the best approach when considering the 
volume of tailings produced (more than 1.7 billion tons through 2022), the 
limited cleared and level land available for a conventional tailings storage 
facility, the extremely high annual rainfall (up to 12 meters per year) and 
the active seismic loads associated with being situated in the tectonically 
active “Ring of Fire” where earthquakes are common. In this unique 
setting, a large-scale conventional style tailings dam would not be safe, 
stable or effective. 
Independent environmental management expert audits have reaffirmed 
that this system is the best management alternative given the site-specific 
conditions of the area. The system has been in service for more than 25 
years and has performed reliably, safely, and in line with initial design 
plans. Nearly three decades of engineering analyses, extensive monitoring 
and data collection, and computer modelling confirm that the current 
tailings management system poses the lowest risk to people and the 
environment, and that the impacts of sedimentation, with the exception 
of elevation changes, are reversible at the end of the mine life. PT-FI 
continues to assess and evaluate additional ways to manage and further 
reduce the potential impacts of its controlled riverine tailings management 
system on the environment and communities, with a view toward 
continuous improvement. 
Effectively Managing Tailings' Geochemistry
Tailings are the finely ground natural rock particles that remain after 
economically valuable minerals have been processed or extracted from the 
mined ore. PT-FI’s tailings are specifically managed to be geochemically 
benign, helping to ensure safety for the environment. This is partly possible 
due to the ore body characteristics and mine plan sequencing as well as PT-
FI’s extensive monitoring and sampling programs. 
Before the tailings enter the controlled riverine tailings management system, 
the tailings are sampled several times daily to determine that the desired 
geochemical balance has been achieved and avoid generation of acid-
forming tailings. PT-FI analyzes the tailings samples to understand their acid 
production and neutralization potential in addition to the metal content, 
particle size and spatial distribution. The information from this sampling 
program informs the mill operators about the expected behavior of the tailings 
with respect to potential acid generation, and if any adjustments to mill feed 
should be made such as the addition of limestone. This process is the basis 
for the mill to be able to confirm and maintain production of geochemically-
neutral tailings to be deposited in the ModADA. 
In addition to monitoring and managing the tailings at the mill, PT-FI also 
regularly tests the neutralization potential versus acid production potential of 
the deposited sediments within the ModADA. If the measured ratio is not at 
the desired level, PT-FI can blend the material with higher neutralizing material 
until it reaches the desired level.
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
Controlled riverine tailings 
management system, 
Grasberg minerals district.
 104
PT-FI ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING PROGRAM
PT-FI commits significant resources to support extensive environmental 
management and monitoring measures to manage tailings safely. These 
measures include substantial internal and external engineering expertise, 
levee construction and river management, incorporating the latest 
technological advances, and corporate and independent third-party 
oversight. On average, PT-FI currently expects to spend approximately 
$100 million annually for the next five years to manage and monitor the 
tailings management system. A multi-disciplinary, multi-department 
team routinely monitors surface and groundwater quality, air quality, 
hydrological characteristics, sediment quality, meteorological patterns and 
ecological characteristics of the entire operations area. 
PT-FI collects some 15,000 samples for analysis annually (based on a five-
year average), using the results to develop the scientific information needed 
to make informed management decisions about system performance with a 
focus on eliminating, minimizing, and mitigating environmental impacts. To 
support this effort, PT-FI established the Timika Environmental Laboratory 
(TEL) in the mid-1990s, located within our operational area in the Lowlands 
town of Timika. The lab is certified to ISO 17025 quality standards by the 
Indonesian National Accreditation Committee and serves as the main 
analytical lab for sample analyses used in our monitoring programs. TEL is 
registered with the MoEF as a Referenced Environmental Laboratory. 
To learn more about PT-FI’s impact monitoring including its human health 
assessment, please see Community Health & Well-being section.
The Tailings Management Roadmap Update
During 2022, PT-FI continued working with Indonesia’s MoEF on the Tailings 
Management Roadmap, a process that was agreed and established with 
the MoEF in December 2018 to support continuous improvement of PT-FI’s 
environmental and tailings management practices. The main objectives of 
the Tailings Management Roadmap are to: (1) reduce the amount of non-
tailings sediments flowing into the ModADA, (2) consider additional methods 
to further control the retention and distribution of tailings within the ModADA 
and downstream area, and (3) examine the potential re-use of the tailings in 
additional projects including infrastructure (such as for road construction and 
as building materials) and other beneficial uses.
PT-FI has complied to date with the Tailings Management Roadmap for the 
2019 – 2024 period. In 2022, PT-FI continued to work with MoEF on developing 
projects that represent incremental improvements to the performance of the 
tailings management system, in both the terrestrial and estuary portions of 
the tailings management area. This includes methods to enhance sediment 
retention within the ModADA and accelerate the growth of mangrove forests 
on deposited sediments containing tailings in the estuary and coastal 
environment. These initiatives not only align with the aspirations of the 
Indonesia government to increase mangrove forest areas in Indonesia, but 
also to illustrate the benign nature of deposited tailings and the ability of these 
newly formed land areas to support diverse ecosystem services. 
Reclamation activities in the 
Highlands near the Grasberg 
open pit, Indonesia.
 105
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
NATURAL SEDIMENTATION IMPACTS ON ISLAND OF NEW GUINEA 
The rivers located on the island of New Guinea are exceptional in their 
naturally occurring sediment loads. New Guinea is situated in an environment 
with extremely high rainfall, and was formed through tectonic activity resulting 
in steep, mountainous terrain, with resultant natural sediment concentrations 
of rivers in the region ranking among the highest in the world. Independent 
studies by academics and researchers have estimated that New Guinea, along 
with five of its island neighbors (Java, Sumatra, Borneo, Sulawesi and Timor) 
naturally produce roughly 20% to 25% of all sediments transported to Earth’s 
oceans despite only accounting for 2% of global land area draining to the 
ocean. New Guinean rivers, in particular, are estimated to deliver 1.7 billion 
metric tons of sediment to the ocean every year. This phenomenon is part of 
a continuous process of erosion from the mountainous elevations resulting in 
high levels of sediments being transported to the sea which can be observed 
through aerial and satellite images all along the coastline of the Arafura Sea. 
This process of sediment erosion creates new land along the island’s coastline. 
Natural growth of the island and associated growth of mangrove forests has 
been observed through a series of satellite images. 
While the sedimentation within the coastal areas of PT-FI’s tailings 
management system occurs at a faster rate than naturally occurring 
sedimentation, these impacts were predicted in numerous studies and are 
consistent with the controlled riverine system design and operation approved 
and permitted by the Indonesia government. Monitoring results continue to 
indicate the environmental impacts of the tailings deposition are reversible 
at the end of the mine’s life, except for elevation changes from deposited 
sediments. Importantly, the sediments within PT-FI’s area of operations have 
proven to be highly suitable for colonization of indigenous plant communities, 
including mangrove forests. PT-FI’s large-scale demonstration reclamation 
projects show that several land use options will be possible after final closure 
of the deposition area. 
REVEGETATION IN PT-FI’S TAILINGS DEPOSITION AREA
To advance post-mining reclamation options and productive land use 
options on tailings soils, PT-FI isolated a 750-hectare area where tailings had 
previously been deposited to use as a natural tailings reclamation laboratory. 
A research team from the University of Papua conducted a vegetation 
inventory of PT-FI’s tailings deposition area, and the team discovered that the 
number of living plant species had more than doubled in the last 17 years. In 
2022, University of Papua researchers identified 1,089 plant species growing 
naturally on tailings compared to the 504 species identified in the same area 
in 2005. University of Papua is also conducting a comprehensive study on the 
use of fresh tailings areas for agriculture land and analyzing the feasibility of 
cultivating plants for economic benefit. These studies are ongoing in 2023. 
PT-FI commits significant resources to support 
extensive environmental management and 
monitoring measures to manage tailings safely. 
Our PT-FI environmental team 
conducts ongoing environmental 
monitoring near our Grasberg 
minerals district.
 106
WASTE MANAGEMENT
WHY IT MATTERS 
Every business creates waste, and reducing that waste is essential to 
managing environmental impacts. In addition to mining and mineral 
processing wastes, such as tailings, waste rock, overburden and slag, our 
operations generate non-mineral waste, which requires proper end-of-life 
management. Responsible management of all these materials is critical to 
complying with environmental regulations, maintaining community and 
environmental health, and advancing social acceptance of our operations. 
OUR APPROACH 
FCX is committed to reducing our environmental impact, which includes the 
effective management of our mining and mineral processing waste (such 
as tailings, overburden and slag, waste rock) as well as non-mineral waste 
(such as recycled material and landfilled waste). The volume of mining 
and mineral processing waste we generate varies depending on site-
specific mine plans. These materials are typically managed in designated, 
engineered stockpiles or impoundments. 
In addition to responsibly managing our mining and mineral processing 
waste, we continuously evaluate opportunities to reduce the quantity of non-
mineral waste generated. We seek to apply the standard protocol of reduce, 
reuse, recycle wherever possible and implement robust practices to identify, 
categorize, store and manage non-mineral wastes. Through our asset recovery 
programs, we divert certain materials from the landfill, and we strive to 
increase recycling and reuse of those materials in our operations. Furthermore, 
we evaluate our hazardous waste streams and, when possible, substitute 
materials with lower toxicity into our processes. 
In addition to FCX’s dedicated tailings stewardship teams who are responsible 
for managing our mining and processing waste, we also have a dedicated 
waste management team composed of subject matter experts from across 
the company. The teams are responsible for advancing our technical expertise 
and developing leadership skills through multi-site collaboration. Our experts 
provide guidance to support global consistency in our waste management 
programs and adherence to FCX’s environmental policy. 
 FCX is committed to reducing our 
environmental impact, which includes the 
effective, responsible management of both 
mining and non-mining wastes.
PT-FI and its community partners recently inaugurated a new 
recycling center near the Manyar smelter project to recover 
construction materials from the project site near Surabaya, 
Indonesia. Proceeds will benefit local community organizations.
 107
PERFORMANCE 
In 2022, the mining and mineral processing waste as well as the non-mineral 
waste we generated were higher than 2021 reflecting increased mining and 
milling rates at many of our operations, including PT-FI, Cerro Verde and Morenci. 
We generated 331 million metric tons of tailings, 414 million metric tons of 
waste rock and overburden and 683 thousand metric tons of slag in 2022. 
Our non-mineral wastes are categorized as: (1) non-hazardous (such 
as tires, scrap metal, obsolete equipment, HDPE pipe, domestic waste 
and wood waste) and (2) hazardous (such as water treatment sludge, 
chemicals, solvents, batteries and reagent packaging). In 2022, we generated 
approximately 274,000 metric tons of non-mineral wastes, of which 12% was 
hazardous and 88% was non-hazardous. 
When possible, our materials are evaluated for other end-of-life uses 
in accordance with applicable regulations and are recycled at our 
own operations or into the global value chain. Through our continuous 
improvement efforts, we have identified and implemented numerous waste 
minimization or recycling efforts across our operations. 
We aim to divert waste from disposal by reusing and recycling the waste 
when possible. For example, our Atlantic Copper smelter in Spain partners 
with WEEE FORUM, a European association that represents producers of 
electrical and electronic equipment, to recycle e-waste and contribute to 
a circular copper economy. In 2022, we continued to expand vendor buy-
back programs to return end-of-life mill liners to the original equipment 
manufacturers who in turn remelt/recast and then return new mill liners to 
us for our use. At certain of our America’s sites, we continued to invest in 
processes and equipment to separate and recover scrap metal mill balls from 
discarded material at the mills. This program began at our Morenci operation 
and has since been implemented at our Cerro Verde operation. In 2022, we 
recovered approximately 4,000 metric tons of these scrap mill balls from this 
process at Cerro Verde alone.
MANYAR SMELTER RECYCLING CENTER IN GRESIK
The landfill in Gresik near the Manyar smelter, is reaching capacity. To help 
address this concern, PT-FI partnered with a local community nonprofit, 
Yatamam, and an internationally recognized waste management NGO, Wehasta, 
to build a waste processing facility. Wehasta will work to increase the operating 
capability of the facility and verify alignment with environmental best practices. 
The Manyar smelter’s waste reduction strategy includes sending recyclable 
construction waste from the project to the facility. Leftover rebar and other 
materials will be sorted, cleaned and cut before being sold to local buyers. 
Profits from sales of these materials will be allocated to Yatamam community 
programs, which currently focus on education for orphans. Yatamam’s long-term 
goal is for profits to support a training facility where locals can practice welding 
and carpentry skills using the recycled materials to create upcycled products.
For more information on how we increase the availability and access to 
skills training for people in our communities, please see the Communities & 
Indigenous People section.
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
49%
48%
Hazardous Waste
Non-Hazardous Waste
% Recycled
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
THOUSAND METRIC TONS
44%
42%
50%
2018
2019
2020
2022
NON-MINERAL WASTE GENERATED & RECYCLED
2021
View more data in 
the Performance 
Data Section
 108
MINE CLOSURE & RECLAMATION
WHY IT MATTERS
Mining requires infrastructure projects that alter the natural environment, such as open-pit mines, roads, and processing 
facilities. Mining companies are responsible for managing these impacts, which include reclamation of the land for post-
mining use. The purpose of reclamation is to return areas impacted by mining and processing activities to a healthy 
state with lands that support productive post-mining land use. 
OUR APPROACH 
FCX understands that effectively reclaiming disturbed land and responsibly closing our mining and processing sites is 
critical to maintaining the trust of our local communities, governments, and other interested stakeholders, and as such, 
reclamation and mine closure processes are integral to our site planning and ongoing operations. 
We seek to plan and operate our mines in a manner that considers post-mining land use well in advance of mine 
closure. Likewise, when designing new projects, or expanding existing ones, we plan for how the land can be reclaimed 
once the mine closes. Our philosophy of responsible production continues when we close our mining and processing 
sites through to reclamation.
FCX strives to work in partnership with our host communities – which in many cases includes Indigenous Peoples – 
to define and deliver shared value, throughout the mine life cycle. We not only seek to avoid, minimize and mitigate 
negative impacts from our operations but also aim to provide long-lasting benefits to our neighbors — beyond 
closure so people can thrive over the life of our mines and beyond. At each of our operations, we have mine closure 
and reclamation plans with site-specific environmental measures designed to minimize long-term impacts, promote 
ecosystem reestablishment, and protect the watersheds where we operate. To support future anticipated closure and 
reclamation costs, each operating mine site has asset retirement obligations aligned with approved closure plans. 
Asset retirement obligations are estimated and accounted for in accordance with generally accepted accounting 
principles (GAAP) in the U.S. and are audited by an independent accounting firm. 
Most of our mines operate for several decades or longer, due to the geological nature of the deposits and the large 
resource base. As a result, implementation of closure plans may not occur for decades in the future. We plan for, 
continually evaluate and carry out concurrent reclamation when possible at our operating mine sites. At these sites, 
concurrent reclamation may include constructing and monitoring test plots, characterizing materials for eventual 
closure work and designing new stockpiles or tailings facilities for closure prior to construction. We are not currently 
implementing any large-scale concurrent reclamation-related earthworks, regrading or capping activities.
We seek to plan 
and operate 
our mines in a 
manner that 
considers post-
mining land use 
well in advance 
of mine closure.
 109
Our reclamation programs incorporate multiple aspects associated with 
environmental management and community well-being, such as water and air 
quality, erosion, wildlife habitats, and revegetation programs, working together 
to advance ecosystem reestablishment. Our traditional post-mining land 
use has been focused on wildlife habitats, and we increasingly are exploring 
other opportunities such as open spaces, recreational and educational uses, 
renewable energy sites and new industrial uses for our lands post-closure. 
By 2024, we plan to have dedicated an area of land to test our site-specific 
reclamation programs at each of our North America operating mining sites 
and at Cerro Verde. We have final reclamation plots constructed in the 
Highlands at PT-FI in addition to a number of large-scale reclamation areas in 
the Lowlands. Since the Grasberg open pit was completed in 2020, the focus 
around the former surface mine area has been on closure and reclamation 
work, which consists of finalizing a major slope stabilization project, other 
geotechnical stability projects, facility recovery, drainage control and 
revegetation activities. By 2024, PT-FI anticipates it will dismantle the Grasberg 
surface facilities that are no longer needed and planned reclamation work on 
the surface mine area will approach completion. 
FCX recognizes the impact of its historic operations and works to reclaim and 
restore areas associated with those legacy liabilities. In Clarkdale, Arizona, 
we gained the support of local elected officials, area environmental groups 
and recreational advocates before removing a century-old water diversion 
structure along the Verde River, which was formerly associated with the United 
Verde Copper Company. The river's natural flow pattern was restored after we 
removed this structure, which will allow for a reestablishment of biodiversity 
and riparian habitat restoration. This project is in addition to our reclamation of 
a former tailings facility in 2007 and our partnership with the Northern Arizona 
Audubon Society since 2004 to take a periodic inventory of birds at Peck’s 
Lake, which is part of the Tuzigoot Important Bird Area.
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
In Colorado, we work with Trout Unlimited and the Division of 
Reclamation, Mining and Safety in a multi-year partnership focused 
on supporting a clean watershed. Our partnership interconnects 
with our Colorado legacy mine site reclamation at the former 
Keystone mine site near Crested Butte, Colorado. The partnership 
has been integral to the successful design and implementation of 
reclamation activities at the site for the last three years.
 110
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE
WHY IT MATTERS 
Countries around the world have various laws and regulations that are 
designed to protect the environment. Meeting these requirements is essential 
to the social license to operate, and it relies upon effective due diligence and 
strong internal processes, policies and practices that drive accountability and 
transparency. 
OUR APPROACH 
All of our mining and mineral processing operations and technology centers 
maintain Environmental Management Systems (EMS) that are certified to 
the ISO 14001:2015 standard by independent auditors. As part of our EMS, 
our workforce is trained on site-specific subject areas and annually on 
environmental issues, and is supported by environmental professionals 
working in the field. 
Site management teams identify, manage and mitigate environmental risks 
through our risk register process and the use of environmental critical 
control systems designed to prevent environmental incidents at our 
operations. Critical controls are focused on the elimination of unplanned 
releases and prevention or minimization of impacts to water and other 
natural resources. 
At the corporate level, subject matter experts train, develop and support our 
site teams, routinely conduct site visits, and in some cases, directly manage 
a group of site-based experts. Collectively, they are responsible for building 
technical expertise, ensuring consistency in our environmental programs 
and sharing best practices. To support this effort, we provide annual training 
for our employees on critical environmental compliance topics, including air, 
water, waste and biodiversity. In 2022, we resumed in-person training sessions 
and conducted approximately 5,700 hours of training. Additionally, we trained 
our global teams on how to track environmental incidents in our recently 
adopted company-wide digital incident management system. 
We conduct various internal and external audits across our sites to review 
our EMS processes and confirm compliance with the ISO 14001:2015 
environmental standard. Comprehensive, independent recertification audits 
are conducted at our operating mines and processing sites every three years. 
During each interim year, surveillance audits are conducted by external audit 
teams. Our internal team conducts corporate-led audits of many sites as well. 
Across our sites in 2022, we completed 15 internal EMS audits and another 12 
internal environmental compliance audits. In addition, in 2022, our mining sites 
were inspected by governmental regulatory agencies 75 times. 
We provide annual training 
for our employees on critical 
environmental compliance 
topics, including air, water, 
waste and biodiversity.
Members of the PT-FI environmental team 
conduct ongoing estuary monitoring near 
our operation in Papua, Indonesia.
 111
As part of our environmental management commitment at PT-FI, external 
audits have taken place on a routine basis since 1996. The current audit, which 
was originally due to be completed in 2020 and delayed due to the COVID-19 
pandemic, was completed in early 2023. This audit included in-person site 
visits in 2022 to evaluate PT-FI’s compliance with national environmental laws, 
environmental-related government regulations, environmental standards and 
a review of tailings management, the Grasberg open pit closure, among other 
key environmental topics. An executive summary of the audit is available on 
our website. In addition to our external audits, we also strive to conduct in-
person internal environmental compliance audits at PT-FI annually.
The robust nature of our internal audits and regulatory inspections demonstrate 
both the strength of our systems and the commitment of our culture and people 
to maintain compliance. We integrate the findings from both internal and 
external audits into our corrective and preventative action plans at all of our 
sites. These actions are reviewed by corporate subject matter experts to ensure 
such measures are robust and institutionalized for the future. 
FCX had the following global environmental compliance targets in 2022: 
(1) incur zero significant environmental events as defined in our risk register 
process, and (2) incur zero environmental penalties over $100,000 on an 
individual basis. 
Our El Abra operation experienced an incident that was identified as 
significant in our risk register process during the year. In March 2022, because 
of a failure along the pipeline, approximately 13,000 cubic meters of an acidic 
solution flowed from a containment dam at our operations through an already 
modified area downstream of the dam and along the access road to the open 
pit. The site activated the contingency plan and immediately implemented 
corrective actions to stop the flow and cleaned up the impacted area. 
We did not incur any environmental penalties over $100,000 on an individual 
basis. Fines levied in 2022 were associated with Notice of Violations (NOV) 
related to water discharge monitoring and reporting at Cerro Verde, waste 
and chemical safety programs at El Abra and wastewater discharge permit 
violations at the El Paso refinery and rod mill. Typically, when our operations 
receive an NOV from a regulatory agency, the citations involve brief and minor 
exceedances of permit conditions or other record-keeping.
2022 Annual Report on Sustainability
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE INDICATORS
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
Reportable spills or releases of hazardous or toxic chemicals1,2
17
33
19
20
16
NOVs related to permit exceedances, spills, releases or other 
compliance matters3
10
5
6
9
12
# of Significant Environmental Events4
1
0
0
0
1
Environmental penalties5
$0
$124,682
$67,100
$18,951
$24,301
1. 	 Reportable spills excludes spills at PT-FI associated with pipeline sabotage. Due to increased security efforts, the number of sabotage-related spills reported at PT-FI decreased from 68 in 2018, to 16 in 2019, to 8 in 2020, to 5 in 2021. 
There were 8 sabotage related-spills in 2022.
2.	 In 2019, there were multiple small (75 kg or less) but reportable events associated with a malfunctioning catalytic oxidizer at our Rotterdam molybdenum processing facility. 
3.	 NOV is Notice of Violation. When NOVs are rescinded based on the legal appeals process, prior year data are updated. 
4. 	 Our risk register assessment uses a likelihood and consequence matrix with a scale on each axis from 1 through 4, with 4 being the highest likelihood or consequence. Significant environmental events are defined as those with a 
rating of 3 or higher on the consequence scale. 
5.	 2019 penalties paid were from NOVs at Sierrita for dust events in 2018 ($30,000) and an NOV at Cerro Verde in 2007 ($94,682). In addition, we agreed to fund a $200,000 Supplemental Environmental Project associated with the 
Sierrita dust events. The Cerro Verde fine was paid in 2019 from a regulatory inspection conducted in 2007 due to an extended legal appeal process. 2020 penalties paid were principally from a Sierrita dust event ($55,000) and the 
failure to obtain a CO2 permit at Rotterdam ($12,000). 2021 penalties paid were associated with delays in commissioning an online, real-time groundwater monitoring system at El Abra. 2022 penalties included $12,959 at Cerro Verde 
associated with an NOV related to water discharge monitoring and reporting; $9,842 at El Abra associated with an NOV related to waste and chemical safety programs; and $1,500 at the El Paso refinery and rod mill associated with 
two wastewater discharge permit NOVs.
