 9
FCX is a leading responsible copper producer — supplying approximately 9% 
of the world’s mined copper. As global decarbonization accelerates, demand for 
copper is expected to increase. FCX is committed to meeting growing demand 
through our sustainability strategy — Accelerate the Future, Responsibly. 
Our strategy is underpinned by the recognition that our products are key 
contributors to global progress, including the acceleration of decarbonization 
around the world. Accelerate the Future, Responsibly guides us to deliver on 
our company’s business strategy of being Foremost in Copper by reinforcing our 
dedication to continuously advance the responsible production of our products. It 
also informs our stakeholders of what we stand for and is a framework that guides 
our decisions. 
We seek to responsibly accelerate the future of copper and mining practices 
and to enhance the future for our stakeholders, which we believe is critical to 
delivering and maintaining shared value. We plan to continue to act on the critical 
social and environmental issues facing our business and our stakeholders with the 
aim of doing more good for our stakeholders and the planet — not just less harm. 
Accelerate the Future, Responsibly aligns with our core values and supports 
our company culture, helping to cultivate an ethical and engaged workforce 
capable of innovating the future of mining and leading our company and industry 
into a more sustainable and responsible era of mining. 
Our 
Approach
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 10
OUR BELIEFS 
The ideologies that shape our focus and drive action across our most important priorities: 
•	 Increased global demand for copper should be met responsibly.  
We can, and we must, manage our impacts and positively contribute within 
and beyond our operational boundaries as we work to meet the world’s 
needs for our products. 
•	 The challenges of tomorrow demand innovation. The future of mining and 
responsible production requires ingenuity and evolution across the value 
chain. We embrace this fully. 
•	 Rising sustainability expectations are an opportunity to create greater 
value. We take seriously our commitments to our shareholders and other 
stakeholders and acknowledge the critical link between our sustainability 
performance and the trust and goodwill we earn from others. Our 
sustainability-related commitments challenge us to continually improve and 
become a better and more productive company. 
•	 Resilience and adaptability are essential characteristics and priorities 
for any organization striving to achieve enduring sustainability 
progress. Meeting the world’s changing needs requires a collaborative 
culture, the capabilities to evolve, people empowered to innovate and 
challenge the status quo, and the financial strength necessary to chart new 
paths and weather any storm. Not only do we apply this internally, but we use 
the same lens in our work with external stakeholders, including communities 
and Indigenous Peoples. 
•	 Transparency and accountability are crucial to building and maintaining 
trust. Trust takes time. It also takes transparency, authenticity and a two-way 
dialogue. We are committed to openly engaging with and listening to our 
stakeholders. We are also committed to transparently sharing our progress 
and to being held accountable for our commitments.
OUR VALUES: SAFETY | RESPECT | INTEGRITY | EXCELLENCE | COMMITMENT
CRITICAL ENABLERS
RESPONSIBLE 
 VALUE CHAINS
COLLABORATIVE 
PARTNERSHIPS
OPERATIONAL 
EXCELLENCE
Thriving 
Environments
Empowered People +  
Resilient Communities
Robust 
Governance
SUSTAINABILITY PILLARS
HEALTHY & 
ENGAGED 
WORKFORCE
Our Strategy 
Our sustainability strategy — Accelerate 
the Future, Responsibly — is designed 
to achieve enduring progress and is 
comprised of four components:  
our beliefs, our sustainability pillars,  
our critical enablers and our values. 
 11
OUR CRITICAL ENABLERS 
We seek to deliver our sustainability strategy through four critical enablers: 
•	 Healthy, Engaged Workforce: Empower our people to deliver a sustainable and innovative mining future. 
We support our people to work safely, to acquire new skills, learn and embrace new technologies, and to 
provide opportunities for growth and development within an inclusive environment. 
•	 Operational Excellence: Set the standard for responsible copper and molybdenum production. 
Continuous improvement enables us to drive the innovation needed to embrace new approaches, ideas 
and technologies that will help us meet or exceed, where feasible, future operational and sustainability-
related expectations while consistently delivering stakeholder value. 
•	 Collaborative Partnerships: Earn and maintain trust with communities and stakeholders. We seek to 
proactively and collaboratively engage our host communities, including Indigenous Peoples, to define and 
build a common vision for creating shared value. 
•	 Responsible Value Chains: Responsibly deliver our products to the global economy. We seek to embed 
sustainability, integrity and compliance across our value chain — both upstream and downstream — to 
ensure copper and molybdenum are produced and used responsibly. 
OUR SUSTAINABILITY PILLARS 
Our sustainability strategy seeks to create greater clarity on the outcomes we are working to achieve across our 
three sustainability pillars: 
Robust Governance: Good governance relies upon dedicated leadership that integrates environmental, 
social and governance (ESG) considerations into everyday operations and business decisions through 
effective internal structures and processes. We strive to embed a holistic approach into decision making 
by leveraging our internal culture as well as regulatory and technical systems and expertise. 
Empowered People & Resilient Communities: People are at the core of our business. We are 
committed to supporting the health, safety and well-being of our people, which includes our workforce, 
our host communities and Indigenous neighbors. We seek to do this in a manner that increases 
resiliency and empowers people to thrive sustainably over the long term. 
Thriving Environments: Mining impacts the natural environment. We strive to conduct our operations 
with minimal adverse impacts on the environment, and we support the protection of ecosystems through 
responsible environmental stewardship. This commitment is embedded in our management systems and 
our approach to continuous improvement. 
ACCELERATE 
THE FUTURE, 
RESPONSIBLY
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 12
OUR VALUES 
Our culture is the bedrock of FCX's sustainability strategy, aligning our 
core company values to our work. Our core values direct the decisions 
we make as a company and as individual employees. These values 
represent who we are and how we work — everyone, everywhere,  
every day. 
Safety 
We put safety first — for ourselves, our co-workers and our communities —  
by actively promoting safe practices and health and wellness. No job is 
so important and no schedule so urgent that time cannot be taken to 
plan and perform work in a safe manner. 
Respect 
We treat each other and our stakeholders with respect. We value the 
diversity, ideas, perspectives and experiences of our employees and our 
stakeholders. 
Integrity 
We are honest, transparent and responsible, and we do what we say we 
will do. 
Excellence 
We pursue excellence in our work by taking pride in what we do 
and always doing our best. We collaborate to create and implement 
innovative ideas and to develop solutions to issues and concerns. 
Commitment 
We are committed to contributing to the long-term sustainability of 
the environment and communities where we work. We hold ourselves 
accountable for our environmental and social performance.
El Abra open pit, Chile.
 13
Ambitions and Performance Targets
In alignment with our sustainability strategy and informed by our materiality assessment and ongoing stakeholder engagement, we have identified our key focus areas 
and established clear ambitions and performance targets for each area, which are outlined in the tables below. Read more about our performance in each of these 
critical areas in the following sections of this report.
ROBUST GOVERNANCE
FOCUS AREA
AMBITION
PERFORMANCE TARGET
2023 PERFORMANCE UPDATE
STATUS
MORE INFO
Human Rights
We are an enabling 
partner for the 
respect and 
promotion of human 
rights within our 
own operations and 
across our value 
chain
Incur zero gross human rights violations¹ at our operations 
by employees or contractors
Achieved
Page 36
Complete human rights impact assessment (HRIA) at  
PT-FI’s Grasberg operations in 2023
Achieved
Page 35
Complete HRIAs at Cerro Verde, Colorado operations and 
Manyar smelter project in 2024
Initiated Cerro Verde HRIA and progressed planning for the Manyar 
smelter and Colorado operations HRIAs
Page 35
Complete global roll-out of new online human rights training 
to corporate and site-level management in 2024
Page 34
Responsible 
Value Chains
We work with our 
supply chain and 
business partners 
to manage and 
promote responsible 
and sustainable 
practices
Refine sustainability supplier prioritization and complete 
engagement process for priority categories in 2023
Achieved
Pages 38-39
Complete implementation of site significant supplier 
process globally and engage with at least 30 suppliers 
identified in the prioritization process at the FCX level
 
Page 39
Ethics & 
Compliance
N/A²
Comprehensive training on Principles of Business Conduct 
(PBC), including certification of management-level 
employees
Achieved
Page 29
Train 90% of selected employees on anti-corruption laws, 
regulations and company policies and procedures
Achieved
Page 31
 
Achieved/On Track
Missed
New
Lagging
1.	 Gross human rights violation — There is no uniform definition under international law; however, FCX's ongoing data collection and review processes are guided by the United Nations Office of the High Commissioner report, 
“The Corporate Responsibility to Respect Human Rights — An Interpretive Guide,” to identify such types of violations. In addition, FCX uses specific interpretation guidance for certain types of violations from various international 
organizations such as the International Labour Organization (ILO). 
2.	 Ambition statements were developed for the eight strategic focus areas determined in our materiality assessment and follow-on sustainability strategy. Ambition statements were not developed for compliance obligations, which 
continue to be critically important to our business.
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 14
1.	 The 2024 community investment target is subject to change.
EMPOWERED PEOPLE & RESILIENT COMMUNITIES
FOCUS AREA
AMBITION
PERFORMANCE TARGET
2023 PERFORMANCE UPDATE
STATUS
MORE INFO
Health & Safety
We put safety first — for ourselves, for 
each other and for our communities — by 
championing a culture of health, safety and 
well-being wherever we do business
Incur zero workforce fatalities (employees + 
contractors)
We regret to report one work-related fatality of a 
contractor at PT-FI's Grasberg operations
Pages 48-52
2023 Target: 0.71 Total Recordable Incident Rate 
(TRIR)
Achieved
Pages 48-52
2024 Target: 0.66 TRIR
Pages 48-52
Workforce
Our culture is safety-focused, respectful and 
inclusive in order to empower our workforce 
to innovate, adapt and succeed
Increase the percentage of women employees, 
including representation in managerial roles, to 15%
At year-end, women represented 14.8% (compared 
to 14.2% as of year-end 2022) of our global employee 
population, 18.9% of our executive management team 
and 12.3% of other managerial roles
Pages 64-65
Continue to assess and enhance equitable 
pay practices and integrate into annual 
compensation review
Achieved
Page 65
Complete upgrades at 40 facilities across 10 
global sites to support safety and inclusion and 
diversity priorities in 2024
Page 62
Communities  
& Indigenous 
Peoples
We work in partnership with our host 
communities and Indigenous Peoples to earn 
and maintain their trust and to contribute to 
long-term shared value and resilience
2023 Community Investment Target: Seek to 
invest 1% of the average previous 3 years' mining 
operation revenues ($203 million)
Invested $187 million in community programs 
globally.
While this is less than our target, community 
investments in 2023 exceeded 2022 by $10 million, 
representing our ongoing commitment to investing 
in community resilience and well-being and 
increasing this investment when revenue permits.
Page 81
2024 Community Investment Target: Seek to 
invest 1% of the average previous 3 years' mining 
operation revenues ($232 million)¹
Page 81
 
Achieved/On Track
Missed
New
Lagging
 15
THRIVING ENVIRONMENTS
FOCUS AREA
AMBITION
PERFORMANCE TARGET
2023 PERFORMANCE UPDATE
STATUS
MORE INFO
Climate
We aspire to participate in — 
and positively contribute to — a 
2050 net zero economy
Achieve greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reduction 
targets by 2030 (vs. 2018 baseline)
Progress against the Americas target declined; however, PT-FI 
nearly met its target for Grasberg during 2023
Pages 84-87
In connection with the Science Based Target 
initiative (SBTi) verification process for our 2030 
GHG emissions reduction targets, complete Phase I 
(scoping and engagement) to develop a SBTi-aligned 
copper Sector Decarbonization Approach (SDA) for 
the copper industry in 2024
In progress
Page 89
Complete sulfur markets resilience study (necessary 
for our SX/EW (leached) copper production) in 2024
In progress
Page 84
Water 
Stewardship
As responsible water stewards, 
we focus on minimizing our 
impacts on shared resources, 
while supporting the long-term 
resilience of our operations, 
host communities and the 
environment
Conduct site-based review of water supply sources 
and use and improve water models to support target 
setting by end of 2023
Conducted a site-based assessment of leading water efficiency 
practices at Cerro Verde; Furthered our evaluations of resilient 
water sources (i.e. new supplies) based on catchment-specific 
risk assessments in Arizona and Peru; Aligned our approach to 
target and objective setting with emerging expectations
Pages 90-93
Develop internal water stewardship plans for our 
seven highest risk operations with Cerro Verde and 
El Abra to be complete in 2024
Page 93
Biodiversity & 
Land Use
We aim to avoid or minimize 
impacts from our operations 
on biodiversity, while 
contributing to the conservation 
of biodiversity beyond our 
boundaries
Formalize and disclose biodiversity management 
plans at Cerro Verde, El Abra, Morenci and PT-FI's 
Grasberg operations by the end of 2023
Achieved, summaries of plans published April 2024
Page 99
Tailings 
Management
We strive to continuously 
manage, enhance and 
innovate our tailings systems 
in a manner that minimizes 
impacts to stakeholders and the 
environment
Implement the Global Industry Standard on Tailings 
Management (the Tailings Standard) at tailings storage 
facilities (TSFs) with “extreme” or “very high” potential 
consequences by August 2023
Achieved
Pages 102-104
Implement the Tailings Standard at all other TSFs by 
August 2025
In progress
Pages 102-104
Environmental 
Compliance
N/A1
Incur zero significant environmental events (as 
identified by our risk register process²)
In 2023, our El Abra and Cerro Verde operations each 
experienced minor equipment failures which resulted in liquids 
crossing their operational boundaries, resulting in two significant 
environmental events as identified by our risk register process
Pages 114-115
Incur zero penalties in amounts exceeding $100,000
Achieved
Pages 114-115
 
Achieved/On Track
Missed
New
Lagging
1. 	 Ambition statements were developed for the eight strategic focus areas determined in our materiality assessment and follow-on sustainability strategy update. Ambition statements were not developed for compliance obligations, which 
continue to be critically important to our business.
2. 	 Our risk register assessment uses a likelihood and consequence matrix with a scale on each axis from 1 through 4, with 4 being the highest likelihood or consequence. Significant environmental events are defined as those with a rating of 3 
or higher on the consequence scale.
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 20
Our Strategy in Action: Responsible Production 
Consistently executing our sustainability strategy means integrating sustainability into everything we do and 
enhancing our focus on responsible production. We are proud to play a leading role in setting the industry 
benchmark for responsible copper production by collaborating with stakeholders to innovate and drive change. 
Defining and implementing responsible production at FCX is an iterative process with continuous improvement 
at its core. We aim to drive responsible production practices throughout our operations by identifying the 
commitments and the corresponding responsible production frameworks that we believe will move the industry 
forward and help to meaningfully advance our operations and supply chains. These commitments include our 
strategic focus areas and related ambitions and performance targets, as well as commitments such as the UNGPs, 
the VPs and the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), among others. Ongoing stakeholder 
engagement is fundamental to informing our policies and processes as well as the voluntary commitments to 
which we subscribe. 
We then integrate these commitments, policies and practices into our risk register process, which drives our actions. 
Regular measurement and reporting support our understanding of our current performance, including any gaps, 
and the actions we need to take to improve. Third-party validation of the implementation of our commitments at our 
operating sites and at the corporate level provides validation of our actions. At the foundation of this iterative process 
is robust governance, which is critical to embedding responsible production across the business. The graphic below 
depicts this process.
VALIDATION
GOVERNANCE
POLICIES  
& PRACTICES
STAKEHOLDER 
ENGAGEMENT
VOLUNTARY  
COMMITMENTS
RISK REGISTER
ACTIONS
MEASURE  
& REPORT
Haul truck at our El Abra operation, Chile.
 21
THE COPPER MARK 
The Copper Mark is a comprehensive assurance framework that promotes 
responsible production practices. It is the first and only framework developed 
specifically for the copper industry. To achieve the Copper Mark, sites are 
committed to adhering to internationally recognized responsible operating 
practices and specifically to a detailed framework based on the Responsible 
Minerals Initiative’s Risk Readiness Assessment. The Copper Mark requires 
an independent external assurance process, including external stakeholder 
interviews, to assess conformance at each site. Awarded sites are required to be 
revalidated by the Copper Mark every three years and communicate routinely with 
the organization on action plans to meet any “partially meets” criteria. 
FCX has achieved, and is committed to maintaining, the Copper Mark and/or  
Molybdenum Mark at all of our operating sites globally. In the second half of 
2023, we began the re-validation process for the initial sites that went through the 
process in 2020, including El Abra, Miami, El Paso and Atlantic Copper. In 2024, 
we will begin working toward conformance with Copper Mark 2.0, which was 
released in 2023 and now covers 33 ESG issues.
FCX continues to play a role in the development of the Copper Mark by actively 
participating in the organization’s multi-stakeholder processes, including the 
Advisory Committee and several technical committees as well as consultation 
during the development of Copper Mark 2.0.
FCX continues to recognize the critical importance of transparently demonstrating 
our responsible production practices. As customer and regulatory pressures 
continue to grow, the Copper Mark enables us to demonstrate this commitment 
to our customers and original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). We continue 
to encourage our stakeholders, peers, customers and downstream users to join, 
collaborate and promote uptake of the Copper Mark validation process globally, 
with the ultimate goal of transparently demonstrating responsible production all 
the way to the end user. Learn more about the Copper Mark on our website and 
view our site-level assessment reports at coppermark.org.
CONSOLIDATING VOLUNTARY RESPONSIBLE  
MINING AND METALS STANDARDS
In 2023, the Copper Mark, Mining Association of Canada, ICMM and World 
Gold Council began working to consolidate their individual voluntary 
responsible mining and metals standards into a single global responsible 
mining standard with a multi-stakeholder oversight system. This collaboration 
intends to respond to feedback from investors, civil society, customers, policy 
makers and mining companies seeking a single, streamlined mining standard 
that is transparent, robust and encourages wider industry participation. FCX is 
involved in the consolidated standard development process, as a member of 
the Industry Advisory Group.
ICMM PERFORMANCE EXPECTATIONS 
ICMM is an organization dedicated to a safe, fair and sustainable mining and metals 
industry. As a founding member, FCX has been a leader for over 20 years, and FCX’s 
Chairman and CEO, Richard Adkerson, served as Chair of ICMM from 2008-2011 
and 2020-2022. ICMM member companies, including FCX, are required to comply 
with its 39 performance expectations and its 10 Mining Principles for sustainable 
development. These expectations, along with topic-specific position statements and 
assurance and validation requirements, define ICMM’s membership commitments. 
The 39 performance expectations must be validated by a third party at the site level 
with annual activities published, including how expectations will be met.
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 22
EMBEDDING RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTION IN GROWTH PROJECTS
As the world transitions to a lower-carbon economy, demand for copper is expected 
to increase. We seek to support this increased global demand, responsibly. We 
employ a variety of baselining and risk management tools to identify and evaluate 
the potential sustainability-related impacts of our operations. Together, these tools 
help us characterize the current social, economic and environmental conditions and 
provide a baseline against which we can measure our performance over time. 
We perform Environmental and Social Impact Assessments, which identify 
potentially affected stakeholders and potential impacts from the outset of new 
projects. We integrate human rights impacts into these assessments to be better 
informed about impacts to people from growth projects. 
As part of the internal risk review process, the Project Development Sustainability 
Review considers sustainability issues during the evaluation, and implementation 
of, potential expansion and development projects. The Project Development 
Sustainability Review process enables us to identify, prioritize and proactively 
manage potential risks before a project begins and throughout its development. 
The process complements the risk register process and serves as a key input 
to the risk register once a project is operational, enhancing the integration of 
sustainability into decision making across the company. The Project Development 
Sustainability Review process is applied during the early stages of mine expansion 
and project development, particularly during scoping, prefeasibility and feasibility 
stages so that risks may be adequately addressed early and continuously 
throughout. The process also supports preparation for future closure of operations.
Since its inception in 2011, we have undertaken reviews and implemented actions 
for 39 projects. Key focus areas identified at different project stages have included: 
access to water, energy and materials, potential impacts to hydrology, air quality, 
biodiversity, human rights, community receptivity, economic impacts, and land 
acquisition and resettlement. 
RISK MANAGEMENT
We implement several processes to identify and assess sustainability-related 
risks, including our sustainability risk register process (risk register), our 
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) program and our global climate scenario 
analyses.
Risk Register 
We translate our responsible production commitments to everyday work 
through the use of our risk register, which identifies, prioritizes, manages 
and tracks sustainability risks and actions at the corporate and site level. 
Defined in a global standard operating procedure, the process uses a risk 
assessment matrix to prioritize risks by both their likelihood and consequence, 
based on customized impact definitions by functional area to drive action. 
All our sites review risks at least annually and prepare detailed action plans 
for risks rated as actionable. Sites use the risk register to identify risks and 
opportunities in relation to their operation and stakeholders. Additionally, 
sustainability-related risks identified outside the risk register process are 
integrated into the registers. The risk register prioritizes risks that could have 
negative consequences to our business and our stakeholders in areas such 
as health and safety, human rights, environmental management, community 
development and economic impact. It also enables sites to identify and 
prioritize opportunities that could have positive consequences. Once the 
risks and opportunities are prioritized, action plans are developed. The risk 
register and these plans are the foundation of internal and external assurance 
processes at both the corporate level and operating sites.
The risks included in the risk register are mapped to our external commitments, 
including ICMM’s performance expectations and the Copper Mark’s 
requirements. Our risk register assists our teams to identify and prioritize 
the most significant risks to our business and our stakeholders. In 2023, we 
developed a plan to better integrate the views of rights-holders into our risk 
processes. We work cross-functionally to implement our various commitments, 
and our risk register enables site-level management teams to focus on priorities 
while promoting globally consistent implementation across our operations. 
In 2023, we continued to add new modules to our environmental, health and 
safety software platform, including an audit and action tool that enables risks to 
be directly connected to actions and audit outcomes.
Reclamation activities in the 
highlands near the Grasberg 
open pit, Indonesia.
 23
Enterprise Risk Management 
Enterprise level risks are identified and assessed through our ERM program, 
designed to provide cross-functional executive insight across the business to 
identify and monitor risks, opportunities and emerging trends that can impact our 
strategic business objectives. Sustainability-related risks embedded within the 
company’s ERM program include health and safety performance, human capital 
management, community engagement, climate change, as well as water and tailings 
stewardship. Human rights risks and impacts are considered when evaluating the 
stakeholder-related consequences of our portfolio of enterprise risks. Our ERM 
program provides the Board with information about the company’s enterprise risk 
profile and allows the Board to assess and monitor the risks over the short, medium 
and long term, both within and outside our operational boundaries. 
Our ERM management committee is comprised of senior leaders with 
responsibility across operations and core business functions, and with a breadth 
of knowledge, influence and experience covering the risks the company faces.  
The ERM management committee reports to our president and periodically 
provides reports on, among other things, business strategy, geopolitical trends, 
markets, people, innovation and cybersecurity risks, to the Audit Committee, the 
CRC and the full Board. 
The ERM management committee is responsible for providing input and oversight 
on the ERM program, which seeks to link our global operations and business 
functions to (1) identify enterprise risks and opportunities, (2) analyze and prioritize 
risks, (3) review risk control environments, including through internal audit, and 
determine additional management actions where warranted, and (4) monitor and 
report progress. Management and the company’s internal audit firm coordinate to 
align assurance activities with priority enterprise risk topics.
CYBERSECURITY RISK MANAGEMENT 
Our cybersecurity risk management and strategy processes are led by our 
Chief Information Officer (CIO) and our Chief Information Security Officer 
(CISO). Our CIO and CISO are responsible for assessing and managing 
our material risks from cybersecurity threats and are informed about 
and oversee the prevention, detection, mitigation and remediation of 
cybersecurity incidents through their management of, and participation in, 
our cybersecurity risk management and strategy processes. We regularly 
evaluate and assess the threat landscape and our security controls, 
including through audits and assessments, regular network and endpoint 
monitoring, vulnerability testing, penetration testing and tabletop exercises 
that include senior management. While management is responsible for 
the day-to-day management of cybersecurity risks, our Board and Audit 
Committee have ongoing oversight roles. 
Our cyber risk management program is designed to assess, identify, 
manage, mitigate and respond to cybersecurity threats and incidents and 
is integrated into our overall ERM program. The underlying controls of our 
cyber risk management program are based on recognized best practices 
and standards for cybersecurity and information technology, including the 
National Institute of Standards and Technology Cybersecurity Framework. 
We have experienced targeted and non-targeted cybersecurity incidents 
in the past, including an incident in August 2023 that affected certain of 
our information systems and resulted in temporary disruptions to parts 
of our operations. However, prior cybersecurity incidents, including the 
August 2023 incident, have not materially affected us. Upon discovery 
of the incident, the Board was informed and engaged in oversight of our 
response efforts. Management provided regular updates to the Board 
and met regularly with the Chair of our Audit Committee regarding the 
incident. A special meeting of the Audit Committee was held to review the 
cybersecurity incident, our findings and response, and the Audit Committee 
briefed the full Board on these matters. 
To learn more about our approach to cybersecurity-related governance, risk 
management and strategy, please refer to our 2023 Form 10-K and our 2024 
Proxy Statement on our website.
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 24
In 2023, we began converting our fleet of 
approximately 30 haul trucks at our Bagdad 
mine in Arizona to fully autonomous.
 25
FCX's governance structures are the foundation for delivering consistent, long-
term stakeholder value, and they reflect our commitment to ESG matters and their 
importance to every aspect of our company. Through our governance structures, we 
work to earn the respect, trust and confidence of our stakeholders by establishing 
and striving to live up to the highest standards of responsible performance. 
Our commitment to sustainability begins at the highest levels of the company, 
with our CEO and with active oversight from our Board. Under their leadership, 
FCX has designed and implemented rigorous policies and processes that drive 
broad engagement with, and strong accountability from, company leadership on 
our sustainability-related commitments. These policies and processes support 
our efforts to embed sustainability into company practices and everyday decision 
making. We seek to evaluate and strengthen our governance structures, policies 
and practices so that we can continue to achieve our sustainability strategy and 
meet evolving stakeholder expectations. 
We recognize that transparency is essential to building — and maintaining — 
enduring trust with stakeholders. We are committed to regularly reporting on 
our ESG performance, including through third-party frameworks. For the 2023 
reporting year we incorporated new disclosures on cybersecurity and integrated 
our OECD Step 5 reporting into this report. 
Our governance policies and programs embody FCX’s commitment to ethical and 
legal conduct in all business practices and activities. Operating our business with 
integrity goes beyond complying with laws and regulations to recognizing that 
the decisions we make as a company have an impact on others. That is one of the 
reasons why FCX's commitments extend beyond the boundaries of our operations, 
to advance the respect and promotion of human rights, raise the standards for our 
industry and drive responsibility across our value chains. 
Robust 
Governance
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 26
GOVERNANCE 
WHY IT MATTERS
Effective governance aligns a company’s purpose, policies and practices to inform robust decision 
making. Strong governance is essential to integrating sustainability broadly across a company by 
instituting procedures that drive engagement and accountability at the highest levels.
OUR APPROACH 
Sustainability is embedded in FCX’s values and business strategy. Governance and oversight of 
sustainability ultimately reside with the Board, with day-to-day management by the executive 
leadership and site-level management teams. Good governance requires focused and consistent 
leadership to ensure FCX’s values and sustainability strategy are integrated into everyday operations 
and business decisions. We have the structure and processes in place to facilitate effective decision 
making and advance our stakeholders’ long-term interests. Given the breadth and complexity of 
sustainability matters, our governance structure seeks to leverage our internal regulatory and technical 
expertise to identify sustainability-related risks and opportunities through the effective management 
and oversight of an interdisciplinary team.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
The Board oversees and guides FCX’s business strategy and monitors the development and 
management of risks that impact FCX’s strategic goals, including sustainability-related risks. In 
its risk oversight role, the Board reviews, evaluates and discusses with appropriate members of 
management whether the risk management processes designed and implemented by management 
are adequate in identifying, assessing, managing and mitigating material risks facing FCX, including 
financial, international, operational, social and environmental risks. As part of our governance 
practices, the Board has a lead independent director with clearly defined responsibilities, providing an 
effective balance between strong company leadership and appropriate safeguards and oversight by 
independent directors. 
Certain areas of the Board’s risk oversight are delegated to its four standing committees: Audit, 
Compensation, Corporate Responsibility and Governance. Each of these committees is comprised 
entirely of independent directors and regularly reports to the full Board. Our committee charters 
define the roles and responsibilities of each committee within FCX’s governance framework. Our 
Corporate Governance Guidelines, along with the charters of our four standing Board committees, 
provide FCX's governance framework and reflect the Board’s commitment to monitor the effectiveness 
of policy, decision making and performance at both the Board and management levels. The Board 
and its committees are also responsible for reviewing and overseeing the company's various policies, 
which are available on our website.
2023 KEY ESG TOPICS 
Board Meetings 
•	 Workforce health and safety 
•	 Information technology and cybersecurity 
processes and procedures
•	 Leadership development and succession planning
•	 Annual adoption of UK Modern Slavery Act 
Statement
Corporate Responsibility Committee Meetings
•	 Workforce health and safety 
•	 Climate strategy and progress update 
•	 Human rights program and performance, including 
progress on HRIAs and annual adoption of UK 
Modern Slavery Act Statement 
•	 Tailings management, including progress 
implementing the Tailings Standard in the 
Americas 
•	 Update on PT-FI’s human health assessment 
•	 Social performance and charitable contributions 
•	 Political spending review
•	 Responsible sourcing of minerals program update
•	 Shareholder engagement feedback and update on 
sustainability initiatives 
•	 Emerging expectations on biodiversity and nature
Compensation Committee Meetings 
•	 Workforce health and safety
•	 Workforce recruitment, retention and development, 
and inclusion and diversity
Audit Committee Meetings
•	 Information technology security processes and 
procedures, including risks and internal controls 
associated with information technology security 
and cybersecurity
 27
BOARD OVERSIGHT OF SUSTAINABILITY 
The CRC, on behalf of the Board, oversees FCX’s environmental and social 
policies and implementation programs and related risks. The CRC reviews the 
effectiveness of FCX’s strategies, programs, and policy implementation with respect 
to health and safety, responsible production frameworks, tailings management and 
stewardship, climate, water stewardship, biodiversity, nature and land management, 
waste management, human rights, stakeholder relations, social performance and 
Indigenous Peoples, responsible sourcing, and political activity and spending 
practices. During 2023, the CRC had four regularly scheduled meetings. 
Additionally, each of the Audit, Governance and Compensation Committees 
oversee key ESG matters. The Audit Committee oversees our global compliance 
program and corporate compliance procedures and our information technology 
and cybersecurity processes and procedures. Additionally, tax matters are 
included within the Audit Committee's financial oversight responsibilities. 
The Governance Committee maintains our Corporate Governance Guidelines 
and oversees our corporate governance practices and procedures. The 
Compensation Committee oversees our executive compensation program 
and human capital management policies, programs, practices and strategies, 
including those relating to workforce recruitment, retention and development, 
pay equity, and inclusion and diversity.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP
SITE GENERAL MANAGERS
FUNCTIONAL DEPARTMENT DIRECTORS
SUSTAINABILITY LEADERSHIP TEAM
GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY NETWORK
Business Unit  
Presidents
Senior Leadership 
Functional Departments
Corporate  
Responsibility 
Committee 
Governance  
Committee
Audit 
 Committee
Compensation 
Committee
OPERATIONS
CORPORATE
FCX Board members visit the Morenci open pit, Arizona.
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 28
EXECUTIVE SUSTAINABILITY LEADERSHIP 
Our CEO has ultimate responsibility for our ESG performance, with active 
oversight from the Board. Our cross-functional SLT includes members of 
management tasked with defining our sustainability strategy and implementing 
our sustainability policies, systems and programs across the organization to 
achieve integrated decision making for responsible production and performance. 
The SLT is sponsored by our Chief Administrative Officer and is led by our 
Chief Sustainability Officer, with active participation from our five business 
unit presidents and senior leadership from functional groups including health 
and safety, security, supply chain, human resources, sales, legal, compliance, 
sustainability and finance.
In 2023, the SLT met nine times and members of the SLT regularly reported 
to executive leadership, including our Chairman and CEO and our President. 
Examples of these matters include target setting and performance, external 
commitments and deliberation on ICMM Council matters, including industry-
leading commitments. In addition, members of the SLT regularly report to 
the relevant Board committees on key environmental and social matters and 
periodically report to the full Board. 
Executive officers are held accountable for FCX’s ESG performance in part 
through FCX’s performance-based annual incentive program (AIP) via pre-
determined metrics aligned with our key commitments and priorities. In 2023, 
ESG metrics collectively accounted for 25% of the AIP (15% safety and 10% 
sustainability), with the sustainability scorecard including performance metrics 
associated with the Copper Mark and Molybdenum Mark, climate, human rights, 
tailings management and workforce priorities. The scorecard used to measure 
2023 sustainability performance metrics can be found in the Compensation 
Discussion and Analysis section of our 2024 Proxy Statement. 
  
30+45+15+10+J
2
5
%
 E
S
G
45% 
Operational
30% 
Financial
10% 
Sustainability
15% 
Safety
2023 
ANNUAL INCENTIVE 
PROGRAM
View more data in  
the ESG Performance 
Data Section
FCX Board members visit the 
Morenci operation, Arizona.
 29
BUSINESS CONDUCT & POLICIES
WHY IT MATTERS 
By prioritizing responsible business practices, a company is able to demonstrate 
its commitment to making a positive impact. Codes of conduct and associated 
policies help ensure that a workforce both understands behavioral expectations 
and has the tools and resources necessary to comply. Consistent execution of 
these expectations can help enhance a company’s reputation and build trust 
among employees, suppliers, customers, regulators and the wider community.
OUR APPROACH 
Integrating responsible business practices across our global operations requires 
comprehensive and disciplined efforts. FCX is guided by its Principles of Business 
Conduct (PBC), the cornerstone of our commitment to ethical business practices. 
It defines the expected behavior of all our employees and the Board and sets 
forth the global principles that our workforce must follow in all activities — from 
complying with laws, to avoiding conflicts of interest, to treating colleagues and 
stakeholders with dignity and respect. The PBC highlights our core values — 
Safety, Respect, Integrity, Excellence and Commitment — and provides guidance 
for the application of these values to our business. 
Our PBC and Corporate Governance Guidelines, along with the charters of our 
Board committees, provide the framework for the governance of FCX and reflect 
our commitment to monitor the effectiveness of policy and decision making at both 
the Board and management levels. 
We conduct comprehensive annual training on our PBC, including certification by 
management-level employees and induction training for all new employees. PBC 
training is assigned to active and applicable employees. In 2023, 99% of assigned 
employees completed comprehensive annual training on our PBC, including all 
assigned managers. This process consists of in-person or computer-based training, 
requiring employees to certify both their understanding of, and compliance with, 
the PBC and to report any known or suspected instances of non-compliance. 
The training covers health and safety concepts, addressing harassment and 
discrimination, dealing with inappropriate behavior, preventing conflicts of interest 
and retaliation from co-workers, and reminding employees how to raise concerns 
via the Compliance Line. Managers and supervisors also are responsible for 
ensuring their direct reports understand these principles, and business partners 
are expected to have read and comply with our Business Partner Code of Conduct 
and associated policies and procedures, which are incorporated into our contracts. 
Board members sign an annual statement acknowledging their understanding of 
the expectations contained in our PBC.
We perform annual company-wide compliance program and risk assessments with 
assistance from our internal audit firm and external legal counsel, which contribute 
to the following year’s assessment strategies. Business controls developed based 
on periodic fraud risk assessments are tested and reviewed regularly at our 
corporate offices as well as at our Grasberg, Cerro Verde, El Abra and Atlantic 
Copper operations.
By prioritizing responsible 
business practices, FCX 
demonstrates its commitment to 
making a positive impact.
Safford operation, Arizona.
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 30
POLICIES & PRACTICES
Our PBC, together with our global policies and practices, details our expected behaviors and commitments to our stakeholders. The Board and its committees are 
responsible for reviewing and overseeing the company's various policies. Descriptions of FCX's key policies are provided below, and complete policies are available in 
local languages on our website. 
Anti-Corruption
Establishes FCX's zero tolerance policy for any form of corruption, private- or 
public-sector, and prohibits facilitation payments worldwide. Outlines procedures 
to comply with the FCPA and other relevant anti-corruption laws in all countries 
where we operate. 
Business Partner Code of Conduct 
Based on our PBC, our Business Partner Code of Conduct outlines our 
expectations for our business partners and supports our commitment to only do 
business with business partners, including suppliers and contractors, who meet 
the standards we set for ethical business conduct. 
Environmental 
Outlines our commitment to minimize the environmental impact of our operations, 
using risk management strategies based on valid data and sound science and, 
where practicable, to protect and enhance the quality of the environment in areas 
where we operate. The policy also outlines our duty to continuously improve the 
environmental performance of our operating sites through ISO 14001 management 
systems and our commitment to no mining and exploring in United Nations 
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) World Heritage sites. 
Human Rights 
Outlines our commitment to respecting internationally recognized human rights 
standards, especially with respect to our workforce, host communities and 
Indigenous Peoples as well as cultural heritage. It also covers implementation of 
the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. The VPs 
are the guidelines for our security programs. 
Inclusion & Diversity 
Outlines our commitment to fostering a culture that is safety-focused, respectful, 
inclusive and representative of the communities where we operate. It also describes 
how we advance our inclusion and diversity principles in the work we do. 
Political Activity & Spending Practices 
Sets forth our expectations regarding political activity and spending. It applies to 
FCX and its affiliated political action committees. 
Responsible Sourcing of Minerals 
Outlines our commitment to producing and sourcing minerals and metals 
responsibly, including respecting human rights; preventing bribery, fraud and 
corruption; and implementing the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and 
Development (OECD) Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Mineral Supply 
Chains in Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas. 
Safety & Health 
Establishes our objective of zero workplace fatalities, injuries and occupational 
illnesses, as well as benchmarks to evaluate our performance. The policy also 
addresses the implementation of safety and industrial health audits at our 
operations on a regular basis. 
Social Performance 
Recognizes the vital role of stakeholder engagement and Free, Prior and Informed 
Consent (FPIC). Calls for collaboration with communities, including indigenous 
and vulnerable populations, to avoid, minimize, mitigate and remedy adverse 
impacts and pursue opportunities to maximize benefits. 
Tailings Management 
Outlines our ongoing commitment to managing tailings responsibly, including 
protecting the health and safety of our workforce, host communities and the 
environment. The policy affirms our goal of zero fatalities, zero catastrophic 
failures and zero unplanned discharges from any of our tailings facilities globally 
and addresses the implementation of the Global Industry Standard on Tailings 
Management for our tailings storage facilities in the Americas.
 31
ANTI-CORRUPTION 
FCX seeks to only work with business partners who uphold the highest standards 
of honesty, ethics and professionalism in the conduct of their businesses. We 
recognize that any violation of the FCPA or other anti-corruption and anti-bribery 
laws of any of the jurisdictions in which we do business could result in significant 
criminal or civil fines and penalties, litigation, or loss of operating licenses or 
permits, as well as significant reputational damage. 
FCX has zero tolerance for corruption of any kind. In addition to our employees, we 
hold our business partners to this same standard. We do not obtain any business 
advantage through bribery, improper payments, kickbacks or any other illegal 
means. No employee or business partner may offer, pay, solicit or accept bribes 
in any form, including facilitation payments. In 2023, FCX had zero legal actions 
regarding corruption brought against the organization or its employees. 
FCX's compliance program is designed to identify potential compliance 
violations before they occur and covers regulatory compliance in areas such 
as anti-corruption, sanctions and other international trade controls, conflicts of 
interest, discrimination and sexual harassment, forced labor and other subjects 
addressed in our PBC. Our comprehensive anti-corruption infrastructure is 
designed to detect, mitigate, and remediate violations of legal and regulatory 
requirements. Our Anti-Corruption Policy and internal guidelines require 
compliance with the FCPA and other applicable laws of the countries and 
jurisdictions where we do business. In addition to our mandatory annual 
PBC training, we provide annual anti-corruption training for specific groups 
of employees based on their roles. In 2023, 99% of employees selected to 
participate in the additional anti-corruption training completed the online 
course. One of our mine sites, Cerro Verde, has recently obtained certification  
of its anti-bribery management system to the ISO 37001 standard. 
Given the potential legal and reputational liability that could result from the actions 
of our business partners and contractors under the FCPA and other laws, FCX 
operates an online due diligence platform, the Freeport Compliance eXchange 
(FCeX). FCeX is a survey-based software platform designed to assess risk of our 
business partners in the areas of anti-corruption, international trade, human rights 
and responsible sourcing, and includes a number of sustainability-related questions. 
FCeX enhances our ability to identify, assess and mitigate these compliance risks. 
The survey is given to new vendors as an initial step in our responsible sourcing due 
diligence and existing vendors are reevaluated periodically. FCX decides whether 
to enter into or continue contractual relationships based in part on responses to the 
survey. Learn more in the Responsible Value Chains section.
COMPLIANCE LINE & WORKFORCE GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS 
Our Compliance Line, along with our other reporting mechanisms, provides 
guidance and assistance to our workforce on any questions or concerns related 
to our PBC, policies or procedures. To encourage our workforce to report potential 
violations of business conduct, our Compliance Line permits anonymous 
reporting. During annual mandatory employee training on our PBC, we remind 
employees how to raise complaints and concerns via the Compliance Line and 
reiterate that FCX prohibits retaliation by co-workers against employees who 
raise any complaints and concerns. Our business partners are also provided 
access to our Compliance Line, as detailed in our Business Partner Code of 
Conduct. For information on community grievance mechanisms please refer to the 
Communities & Indigenous Peoples section. 
We acknowledge Compliance Line reports by sending a confirmation to 
the reporting party, and, if substantiated after investigation, the appropriate 
disciplinary action is taken, up to and including termination of employment. Our 
goal is to respond to grievance reports promptly and impartially. We aim to close 
grievance cases within 30 days of notice. However, the amount of time required 
to conduct a thorough investigation depends on the context and location of each 
case. In 2023, we received 457 Compliance Line reports, many of which were 
human resources-related and approximately 20% of which were duplicative. 
Approximately 9% of reports received were fully or partially substantiated. In 
addition, for workplace-related grievances, our workforce can report information to 
the compliance department either via the phone, email or web portal. Reports are 
documented, reviewed and assigned for investigation, as appropriate. Our global 
human rights team is engaged for human rights-related complaints. 
In addition to reporting through the Compliance Line, we encourage our 
workforce to engage directly with human resources or compliance team members 
at the site level to address topics best understood by those with local knowledge. 
For more information on reporting workforce grievances and our investigation 
process, please see the Labor Relations section, FCX’s grievance reporting 
website and PT-FI’s grievance reporting website.
 
View more data in  
the ESG Performance  
Data Section
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 32
Human Rights
WHY IT MATTERS
People have the right to be treated with dignity and respect. Human rights are 
internationally recognized, defined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights 
and codified in international law. Mining activities have the potential to impact the 
way people enjoy these rights ― as employees, contractors, suppliers, community 
members, human rights defenders and members of other groups. Businesses 
have a responsibility to respect human rights, avoid infringing on the human rights 
of others and address any adverse human rights impacts with which they are 
involved.
OUR APPROACH
FCX is dedicated to the recognition, respect and promotion of human rights 
wherever we do business. Respect is a core value that guides how we do 
business. We are committed to respecting the rights of all people, including our 
employees, business partners, community members and others who potentially 
may be impacted by our business activities. We take this obligation seriously in 
all aspects of our business, and we expect the same of our business partners as 
detailed in our various policies and programs described below and discussed in 
more detail in the Responsible Value Chains section.
We recognize that human rights are overarching and that they connect to every 
aspect of our business. As such, we aim to promote human rights through 
proactive engagement with host governments and communities and by educating 
stakeholders, including training our employees and contractors.
FCX respects internationally recognized human rights, including the rights 
under the International Bill of Human Rights, and is committed to implementing 
the UNGPs. We work toward continuous improvement in establishing greater 
institutional awareness and deeper understanding of what human rights are and 
how they impact every role within FCX. We also are committed to complying with 
the UK Modern Slavery Act, aimed at minimizing the risk of slavery and human 
trafficking throughout our business and supply chain. Our most recent UK Modern 
Slavery Act Statement is available on our website.
On a broader scale, we participate in multi-industry dialogues on respect for human 
rights ― including BSR’s human rights working group; two World 50 groups that 
provide executive-level peer-to-peer collaboration and information exchange on 
multiple topics, including human rights and responsible supply chains; ICMM 
working groups; and the Voluntary Principles Initiative. These external initiatives, 
together with local and international-level stakeholder engagement, influence our 
human rights approach. Our work also continues to benefit from the support of 
third-party human rights consulting firms, which provide advisory support on our 
UNGPs implementation and assist in implementation of HRIAs.
We do not condone any form of threats, intimidation or violence against those who 
peacefully promote and defend human rights and we expect the same from our 
business partners. We recognize the value of an active and open society supported 
by the rule of law and believe it is important that our stakeholders are able to 
express their opinions in a safe manner without fear of reprisal or persecution.
HUMAN RIGHTS SALIENCY ASSESSMENT UPDATE 
In 2023, we began updating our FCX-level human rights saliency 
assessment in order to provide a current overview of our global 
human rights risk profile. The saliency assessment, last updated in 
2013, evaluates the 10 site-level HRIAs FCX has conducted to date in 
Peru, the U.S., Chile and Indonesia as well as benchmarking of peer 
companies to identify salient risks at the industry level. The saliency 
assessment seeks to identify and prioritize human rights risks based 
on scope, scale, remediability and likelihood. The outcome of the 
saliency assessment will be used to inform an update to our global 
human rights strategy, which we expect to complete in 2024. 
 33
POLICIES & PROGRAMS
•	 Human Rights Policy – This policy states our commitments to the 
International Bill of Human Rights, the UNGPs and the VPs. Our Human 
Rights Policy includes expectations for our suppliers and other stakeholders 
across our value chain.
•	 Business Partner Code of Conduct – Based on our PBC, our Business 
Partner Code of Conduct sets forth expectations for our business partners, 
including suppliers, contractors, customers and recipients of charitable 
giving in areas such as safety, human rights, anti-corruption, community and 
environment. We mandate human rights standards through our contracts 
with business partners.
•	 Responsible Sourcing of Minerals Policy – This policy commits our business 
to identifying and mitigating human rights violations in our supply chains of 
minerals and metals for our downstream processing facilities.
•	 Human Rights Impact Assessments – HRIAs are our primary method of 
conducting human rights due diligence at our active operations. HRIAs are 
conducted by third-party consultants, who gather direct input from internal 
and external rights-holders.
At the Board level, the CRC provides oversight of our human rights program. The 
CRC receives reports on, among other topics, relevant human rights strategy 
updates, HRIA results and actions, and significant incidents. At the management 
level, the SLT provides oversight of our human rights plans, and the program 
is directed and managed by our corporate and site-level sustainability teams. 
Our PBC and other core policies ― including Anti-Corruption, Environmental, 
Inclusion and Diversity, Safety and Health, Social Performance, and Tailings 
Management ― support the application of our Human Rights Policy. These 
policies and supporting management systems, along with relevant external 
standards and initiatives, guide our management of human rights.
PERFORMANCE
Our human rights team continues to collaborate across our operations on an 
ongoing basis. During 2023, our global human rights team continued to support 
our sites and supply chain processes with the aim of further embedding respect 
for human rights across our business. The team held regular meetings with 
higher-risk operating sites to discuss and address complex issues, enabling our 
operations to adapt quickly and keep respect for human rights at the forefront. 
Our cross-functional human rights working group refreshed its charter in 2023 
to reflect our current needs as well as the evolving human rights landscape. The 
working group is focused on driving our strategy globally and supporting site-level 
implementation of the UNGPs and integration of human rights considerations 
across our business. 
Our work in 2023 included supporting the implementation of the Tailings 
Standard, advancing our global human rights training program, reviewing our 
approach to assessing human rights risks through our sustainability risk register 
process, advancing HRIAs and as noted above, a global human rights saliency 
assessment. We continue to work to improve the technology used for our risk 
register, stakeholder engagement, grievance management and HRIA action plan 
tracking. These initiatives are aimed at both further embedding respect for human 
rights across our business and educating and improving internal and external 
stakeholder understanding of human rights. 
CORPORATE HUMAN RIGHTS BENCHMARK
The Corporate Human Rights Benchmark ranks companies globally on their human rights performance based on publicly available information. 
The 2023 assessment ranked FCX 6th out of 110 Extractives and Apparel companies assessed, 4th in the Extractives sector and 2nd among mining 
companies. Visit the World Benchmarking Alliance website at worldbenchmarkingalliance.org for more information.
View more data in  
the ESG Performance 
Data Section
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 34
HUMAN RIGHTS TRAINING
Training is a core component of embedding respect for human rights across our 
business. Human rights considerations are currently included in our annual PBC 
training, which employees are required to undertake. In 2023, we progressed the 
development of a new standalone global human rights training module designed 
to drive a consistent approach across FCX and support greater awareness and 
understanding of human rights considerations, such as modern slavery, within the 
context of our operations. The new training module has been finalized and translated 
into relevant languages. We plan to begin rolling it out across FCX during 2024.
In North America, we conducted targeted training on our Working Hours and 
Fatigue Management Policy and piloted a new approach to socializing company 
policies and the Compliance Line process during on-site contractor onboarding.
In Indonesia and Peru, where both human rights and security risks are higher, we 
conduct targeted training on human rights and the VPs. Training at these sites is 
led by dedicated site-based human rights compliance officers.
In 2023, members of PT-FI’s Community Relations team and the Manyar smelter’s 
sustainability team participated in a six-month Business and Human Rights 
Accelerator program offered by the Indonesia network of the UN Global Compact. 
The program was designed to assist companies in Indonesia to understand and 
implement international human rights reflected in increasing legislation and 
regulatory requirements. PT-FI also conducted approximately 16,900 hours of training 
at its Grasberg operations on our Human Rights Policy and the VPs. Training included 
induction or refresher training for new and current workforce members and pre-
deployment training for approximately 1,600 police and military personnel. As part of 
its training program, PT-FI maintains a Human Rights Ambassador program designed 
to extend education and awareness of human rights to on-site contractors. This 
program has also been implemented at the Manyar smelter project. 
In 2023, Cerro Verde had approximately 5,000 hours of online and in-person 
training on our Human Rights Policy and the VPs. Training included induction or 
refresher training for new and current workforce members and pre-deployment 
training for approximately 620 police personnel. We also updated our UNGP 
implementation training materials at an FCX level and conducted training for the 
members of the Cerro Verde community, legal and tailings departments. Each 
training leveraged a relevant real-world scenario to help them apply human 
rights concepts to their risk registers, stakeholder engagement, and grievance 
mechanisms and remedy.
VOLUNTARY PRINCIPLES ON SECURITY & HUMAN RIGHTS
The VPs serve as guidelines for our security and human rights programs, including 
for interactions with host government police, military personnel and private 
security contractors. We focus our implementation primarily on Indonesia and 
Peru, which represent our higher-risk operating environments in terms of security 
and human rights.
Risk assessments help us identify security-related human rights risks and create 
action plans for specific site-level operating environments. Contracts with private 
security providers include requirements to comply with both our Human Rights 
Policy and the VPs. We maintain support agreements with host governments that 
detail the working relationships between FCX and the public security personnel 
assigned to it. Dedicated human rights compliance officers lead training for 
security employees, security contractors and host government security. They also 
receive, document and follow up formally and informally on reported human rights 
incidents, grievances and allegations. Refer to our annual reports to the Voluntary 
Principles Plenary on our website for more information.
El Abra operation, Chile.
 35
DUE DILIGENCE
As we seek to further embed respect for human rights across our organizational 
activities, we have various due diligence processes that help us to identify and 
assess which human rights topics are most salient at the site-level so that we 
can manage and integrate these risks into our ongoing operational work. We use 
our risk register process to identify risks to people at our existing operations. We 
also have a risk identification process for our greenfield projects and brownfield 
expansions to address potential and actual impacts on rights-holders. We 
implement and refine our approach to human rights through ongoing stakeholder 
engagement, grievance management and the findings from our HRIAs.
HRIAs, conducted by third-party consultants using methodologies aligned with 
the UNGPs, are our primary method for conducting human rights due diligence at 
our operations, including a sampling of our on-site contractors and local suppliers. 
These assessments involve direct input from a broad cross-section of internal 
and external rights-holders, and they support continuous improvement of our 
management systems by testing their effectiveness in identifying and addressing 
potential, actual and perceived human rights risks and impacts. Findings from 
the HRIAs also help to inform our approach when pursuing potential expansion 
opportunities and updating corporate and site-level practices. We also are 
integrating human rights into social baseline studies for our operations as well as the 
social baseline studies and impact assessments conducted for greenfield projects 
and brownfield expansions.
In addition to HRIAs, our responsible sourcing programs require human rights 
due diligence on suppliers of both goods and services, and minerals and metals 
for further processing. The development of these programs is informed by our 
HRIA findings. In 2023, we advanced our approach to assessing supplier human 
rights and other sustainability-related risks, which we discuss in more detail in the 
Responsible Value Chains section.
HRIA at Cerro Verde 
In 2023, we engaged a third-party consultant, BSR, to initiate the second HRIA at our 
Cerro Verde operations in Peru. The first Cerro Verde HRIA was completed in 2017. 
The current HRIA is designed to assess progress made in managing human rights 
risks and impacts as well as to gain an updated understanding of human rights risks 
and impacts to develop new action plans that respond to the current challenges. 
An on-site kick-off meeting was held in late 2023, followed by a site and community 
tour and briefing sessions with Cerro Verde’s cross-functional team to provide 
BSR with background information about Cerro Verde. Relevant documents were 
reviewed, stakeholders were identified and preparations were made for the field 
assessment, which was completed in early 2024. We expect to publish a summary of 
the process, findings and recommendations following completion of the assessment.
HRIA at PT-FI Grasberg
In 2023, together with the third-party consultant, Acorn International, PT-FI 
completed its first HRIA at its Grasberg operations. Taking into consideration the 
unique and complex nature of the site, the HRIA was designed to focus on  
PT-FI's business processes and systems, with the aim of improving its ability to 
effectively identify and address human rights risks and impacts. The HRIA included 
interviews with both internal and external stakeholders to inform the process. The 
HRIA evaluated the maturity of PT-FI’s human rights management systems across 
18 priority areas. The results confirm the overall strength of PT-FI’s existing business 
systems for Grasberg as they relate to human rights. As part of the outcome of 
the assessment, Acorn provided various recommendations to PT-FI, including 
priority recommendations related to training and knowledge management, 
stakeholder engagement and gender. PT-FI and the corporate human rights team 
have developed an action plan to address the various recommendations with the 
objective of embedding the recommendations as business as usual. For additional 
information about the PT-FI Grasberg HRIA findings and recommendations, please 
visit the Human Rights – Embedding Respect section of our website.
HUMAN RIGHTS IMPACT ASSESSMENT STATUS
YEAR 
CONDUCTED
2013
2017
2018
2021
2021-22
2022-23
2023-24
2025
Site/Region
Corporate
Cerro Verde
New Mexico sites
El Abra
Arizona sites
PT-FI Grasberg
Cerro Verde, 
Manyar Smelter 
Colorado sites
Status
Complete
Complete
Complete
Complete
Complete
Complete
In Progress
Planning
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 36
MONITORING HUMAN RIGHTS PRACTICES AT THE MANYAR SMELTER
The large, temporary workforce at the Manyar smelter project during the 
construction phase presents a variety of potential human rights-related risks. 
Through regular reviews of our engineering, procurement and construction 
(EPC) contractor and subcontractor performance, and specific programs aimed 
at advancing human rights, PT-FI has been developing this project to meet the 
commitments as defined in FCX’s Human Rights Policy.
PT-FI's expectation is that every on-site worker receives human rights awareness 
training. Through PT-FI’s Human Rights Ambassador program, a team of human 
rights ambassadors employed by various contractors and subcontractors has 
been trained to provide culturally sensitive human rights induction training for the 
project’s workforce. From the start of the project through the end of December 
2023, more than 50,000 employees, contractors and security personnel received 
training on what human rights are, FCX’s Human Rights Policy, compliance, 
worker welfare principles, gender equality, cultural considerations and how to 
access available grievance mechanisms. For example, our Compliance Line is 
available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week and affords individuals the opportunity to 
report anonymous grievances should they prefer to do so.
In late 2022, during an internal review of subcontractor records from the Manyar 
smelter project, it was identified that three underage workers (all aged 17) had been 
voluntarily employed at the project. FCX and PT-FI strictly prohibit child labor in our 
Human Rights policy. As a result, the EPC contractor implemented both corrective 
and preventative measures, including enhanced worker screening and bi-weekly 
meetings with PT-FI where expectations are communicated and potential issues are 
reviewed. Since implementing these measures, we are not aware of another such 
occurrence and these measures have also enhanced communication between PT-FI 
and the EPC contractor and other contractors. 
PT-FI also strengthened its monthly social and human rights inspection process that 
provides further safeguards for protecting human rights. The inspection program is 
based on the human rights-related contractual obligations documented in the EPC 
contract, including the prohibition of recruitment fee payments by workers, conditions 
of employment, minimum wage, overtime hours, number of working days, insurance, 
worker age requirements, anti-harassment, safety and living conditions, among 
others. The inspection involves a review of various documents, including worker 
contracts and pay slips, as well as informal interviews and formal interviews with 
randomly selected employees across a range of categories, including gender, job 
position (skilled/unskilled labor), contract status and accommodation arrangements. 
Findings are documented and tracked through to closure. This inspection program 
is also implemented with the contractors and subcontractors associated with the 
precious metals refinery, located adjacent to the smelter.   
As the project transitions in 2024 from construction to operation, we plan to 
initiate a third-party HRIA at the smelter to support an effective human rights due 
diligence program for the ongoing operation. 
Comply?
NO
Human Rights 
Inspection Checklist
Human Rights 
 Inspection  
Implementation
Continuous 
Improvements 
& Lesson Learned
Monitoring 
(Interview)
Determination of 
Remedial Actions
Human Rights 
Incident Records
YES
HUMAN RIGHTS INSPECTION PROCESS FOR 
MANYAR SMELTER AND PRECIOUS METALS 
REFINERY CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS
 37
ILLEGAL ARTISANAL MINING 
At PT-FI's Grasberg operations in Indonesia, illegal artisanal miners seek economic 
opportunity by panning for unrecovered gold from our milling operations in the 
controlled riverine tailings system. While artisanal mining within PT-FI’s area of 
work is illegal under Indonesian law, on average, approximately 5,400 artisanal 
miners (including family members associated with the artisanal miners) had 
established camps at various points within the lowlands and highlands as of 
December 2023. About 75% of artisanal miners in the lowlands come from outside 
Central Papua and represent over 45 different ethnic groups, while artisanal 
miners in the highlands are 95% ethnic Papuans. Many of the illegal artisanal 
miners do not have expertise operating in hazardous conditions, including the 
remote terrain and varied climatic conditions experienced at Grasberg. Additional 
safety challenges exist as illegal artisanal mining activity occurs alongside 
ongoing levee maintenance and earthworks, which are needed to responsibly 
manage the controlled riverine system. 
PT-FI utilizes a cross-functional management plan to help mitigate the potential 
social, security, safety, environmental and operational risks associated with illegal 
artisanal mining. The aim of the plan is to reduce the number of illegal artisanal 
mining panners within the Grasberg operating area and related disruptions to 
operations. Continued efforts include educational campaigns, monitoring the 
environment for mercury use, strengthening check points, increasing unmanned 
aerial systems patrols and focusing on joint patrols with third-party security 
personnel. Joint patrols, which include representatives from our workforce, local 
police and private security personnel, monitor the area occupied by panners 
and when issues are identified, such as social, environmental, safety or security 
issues, the patrols inform the cross-functional team. The cross functional team 
reviews drone surveillance filmed by PT-FI’s aviation group and coordinates with 
the joint patrols, which play a key role in socialization of educational campaigns 
and problem solving within the illegally occupied area. To integrate illegal artisanal 
mining issues into PT-FI’s planning and decision making, the cross-functional 
team meets regularly to update leadership.
PT-FI’s community liaison officers and third-party contractors seek to proactively 
and continuously engage the artisanal mining communities on operational 
changes in an effort to manage their expectations, encourage them to seek 
alternative livelihoods, and to minimize risks to the operations and to the artisanal 
miners and their families. PT-FI also seeks to inform the artisanal miners in 
advance of planned levee maintenance work and equipment movements to 
minimize safety risks. 
PT-FI cannot address illegal artisanal mining on its own. A multi-faceted approach  
including government cooperation, security risk management, stakeholder 
engagement and socioeconomic development for alternative livelihoods is essential. 
To that end, PT-FI’s artisanal mining management plan includes regional and 
national objectives to help build strategic partnerships for a multi-stakeholder 
artisanal mining strategy. For more information about our controlled riverine tailings 
system and the dangers associated with illegal artisanal mining, please refer to the 
Tailings Management section and the Health and Safety section.
 
GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS & REMEDY
We maintain grievance mechanisms for employees, community members, 
members of our supply chain and others to report potential human rights 
concerns. These mechanisms support our commitment to remedy by 
helping us address concerns early and remediate impacts directly. We work 
to promote awareness of these mechanisms through a variety of means, 
including through posters, company webpages, stakeholder engagement 
and training.
While we seek to avoid causing and contributing to adverse impacts on people 
and communities, we acknowledge they may occur. We are committed to 
providing for, and cooperating in, the remediation of adverse impacts related to 
our business as well as collaborating with value chain stakeholders to address 
impacts linked to our business relationships, where appropriate. Remedy can 
take a range of forms, including cessation of impact or business relationship, 
apology, restoration of what was lost, cash or in-kind compensation and/or 
rehabilitation. Remedy can also involve the identification of lessons learned and 
steps taken to prevent re-occurrence. Use of our internal and external grievance 
mechanisms does not preclude access to judicial or other non-judicial 
grievance mechanisms. In the event of accusations made through a state-
based, non-judicial grievance mechanism, we are committed to participating 
in related proceedings constructively, cooperatively and in good faith. To 
learn more, please refer to the Business Conduct & Policies section and the 
Communities & Indigenous Peoples section.
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 38
RESPONSIBLE VALUE CHAINS
WHY IT MATTERS
How a company sources goods and services can have a significant impact across 
environmental and social matters. Globally, human rights and environmental 
issues in supply chains have been receiving increasing scrutiny from consumers, 
NGOs, regulators and stakeholders. As a result, users of minerals and metals, such 
as automotive and electronics OEMs, have taken steps to improve due diligence 
in their own supply chains, which has led to more attention within the mining 
industry. This pressure heightens expectations and responsibility for robust due 
diligence by mineral and metal producers globally.
OUR APPROACH
FCX is committed to sourcing, producing and distributing metals and minerals 
responsibly across our entire value chain. This includes working to ensure 
continuity of supplies necessary for our operations in a responsible manner. We 
are committed to identifying and mitigating risk in our supply chains while striving 
to meet the requirements of global markets and increasing demands from our 
customers, end users and traders who sell our products. FCX continues to work 
diligently to advance its supply chain management by incorporating sustainability 
risks into its systems and tools for decision making and supplier management.
Our responsible value chains efforts focus on three key activities: (1) identifying 
and mitigating risk in our supply chains through our own responsible sourcing 
efforts for goods, including minerals and metals, and services, (2) product 
stewardship to manage the in-use risks of our products and by-products, and (3) 
working to better understand the full life cycle impacts of our products.
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING
Through our responsible sourcing programs, we seek to embed sustainable and 
responsible business practices into the preliminary supplier selection process as 
well as the duration of our working relationship with a supplier. This is a significant 
undertaking, as it covers more than $17 billion of spend and more than 20,000 
first-tier suppliers that provide a wide variety of goods and services — from small 
catering businesses in remote locations to large multinational corporations that 
manufacture large equipment or produce mineral and metal feedstock materials. 
With more than 85% of our suppliers residing in one of the seven countries where 
we have operations, we have first-hand knowledge of the risks and complexities 
where most of our suppliers operate. 
Approximately 65% of our suppliers have been working with FCX for 6 or more 
years, and of those, approximately 75% have conducted business with us for 10 
or more years, demonstrating our commitment to establishing and maintaining 
mutually beneficial, long-term relationships. 
Our Business Partner Code of Conduct is at the foundation of our responsible 
sourcing program for all suppliers globally. The Business Partner Code of 
Conduct is supported by various other FCX policies, such as our Safety & Health, 
Environmental, Human Rights, Anti-Corruption and Social Performance policies. 
All on-site contractors are expected to abide by applicable FCX policies and site-
based procedures that apply to our own employees. The process shown below 
outlines the overall approach for the program, beginning with the Business Partner 
Code of Conduct and strategy.
STRATEGY 
& BUSINESS 
PARTNER CODE 
OF CONDUCT
MONITORING
DUE  
DILIGENCE
TRACKING  
PERFORMANCE  
& REPORTING
RISK 
ASSESSMENT
PREVENTION/
MITIGATION
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING 
FRAMEWORK
S
U
PP
LI
ER
 E
N
G
A
G
E
M
E
N
T
 39
Supplier Evaluation and Monitoring
We continue to improve our systems and processes related to due diligence, risk-
monitoring and in-depth assessments to allow for quicker access to supplier data 
and information as well as streamlined risk identification. We use a combination 
of tools to understand and monitor supplier risk and to encourage compliance 
with our Business Partner Code of Conduct. While all suppliers (goods and 
services and minerals and metals) undergo the same initial screening process, 
minerals and metals are then subject to a secondary diligence process specifically 
designed to meet the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply 
Chains of Minerals from Conflict Affected and High-Risk Areas (OECD Guidance), 
which is covered in more detail in the section on Responsible Sourcing of 
Minerals & Metals.
In 2023, we completed the development of a risk-based decision-making process 
to identify higher risk suppliers where closer collaboration is warranted. Our 
objective is to identify and assess industry and location-based risks, confirm 
whether they are present in our supply chain and build capacity as necessary. In 
cases where risks are present and un-mitigated (e.g., lack of policies, processes 
or strong management systems), we will coordinate with suppliers and, when 
appropriate, conduct on-site assessments, performed by employees or third 
parties if specific expertise is needed. 
The Freeport Compliance eXchange (FCeX) is an online due diligence platform 
that allows us to distribute a compliance questionnaire addressing anti-corruption, 
international trade, human rights, environment, and health and safety risks among 
others. This survey-based software platform enhances our ability to communicate 
relevant FCX policies as well as to screen suppliers’ internal policies and key 
personnel, owners and associated third parties. FCeX also provides data analytics 
and important metrics that help FCX assess supplier commitments and actions for 
minerals and metals sourcing. The survey is utilized for new vendors as our first 
line of due diligence in our responsible sourcing program. Suppliers assessed in 
FCeX as low risk are reevaluated every three years, while higher risk suppliers are 
reevaluated annually.
SAP Ariba Supplier Risk Management and Supplier Lifecycle and Performance 
(Ariba) tools consolidate ESG-related risk data collected from external sources 
and help us monitor supplier risk on an ongoing basis. In particular, these tools 
enhance our compliance and supplier risk assessment across four risk domains: 
(1) operations, (2) regulatory and legal compliance, (3) environmental and social, 
and (4) financial, and provide us with the capability to conduct more in-depth risk-
based assessments, when needed. We have integrated relevant Verisk Maplecroft 
country- and industry-level sustainability risk indices into the Ariba platform based 
on our potential supply chain risks. We have also implemented various alerts, 
which monitor approximately 600,000 data sources for reputational, compliance, 
financial, human rights, sustainability and operational risks associated with all 
of our suppliers. In the event that we receive a high-risk alert, our responsible 
sourcing team reviews the incident for credibility and escalates, as needed. 
In 2023, we worked to directly incorporate our sites into the due diligence process 
by creating a site-driven process to identify and evaluate significant suppliers. 
Site-level significant suppliers are those critical to the business and/or pose 
significant ESG risk. Each FCX operating site defines its list of significant suppliers 
based on its unique operating requirements and potential industry and location-
based risks. In support of this work, our Global Supply Chain sustainability team 
conducts a desktop review of each significant supplier to assess their policies and 
procedures against FCX expectations, as defined in our Business Partner Code 
of Conduct. In cases where there are gaps, the site or relevant FCX relationship-
owner works with suppliers to raise awareness of policy expectations. We 
leverage this engagement to reinforce the availability of the FCX Compliance Line 
to ask questions and report concerns. In 2023, we completed the identification 
of significant suppliers at six of our operating sites. The site-based identification 
process, desktop review and training will continue in 2024. Significant supplier 
lists will be reviewed annually.
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 40
LOCAL & DIVERSE PROCUREMENT
FCX remains committed to supporting our local communities and businesses and 
recognizes the critical role they play in our daily operations. Globally, we seek to 
train and encourage buyers and contract administrators to provide opportunities 
to local and diverse suppliers when possible and in alignment with our business 
needs. Each mine site works with their community development managers, local 
NGOs and Indigenous partners (where applicable) to identify initiatives to enhance 
opportunities for local suppliers. Examples of such initiatives include participating 
in supplier fairs, roundtables, chamber of commerce meetings and open house 
events and promoting our economic empowerment and small business training and 
certification programs (such as DreamBuilder and WEConnect International). 
We continue to prioritize greater transparency in our local procurement 
spending, with a focus on expanding opportunities for local suppliers, where 
feasible. We have implemented standard operating procedures and/or plans 
emphasizing local procurement across our operations and include this 
information in our ongoing training with our site procurement teams. In addition, 
both Cerro Verde and El Abra provide reduced payment terms for qualifying 
small- and medium-sized local businesses. 
In 2023, we continued our engagement with the Mining Local Procurement 
Reporting Mechanism (LPRM), which is an initiative that seeks to develop, through 
disclosures, a set of common standards agreed upon by both host countries and 
mining companies for what constitutes local procurement. FCX has met the LPRM 
disclosure requirements, which require disclosure of local procurement spending 
by site and additional information for existing and potential suppliers, which is 
available on the Suppliers page of our website.
In addition to initiatives to support local suppliers, FCX also seeks to support small 
and diverse suppliers. Through our efforts to understand the range of diverse 
suppliers already in our supply chain, we aim to promote an inclusive approach to 
procurement. In 2023, we completed a project to update our records with small- 
and diverse-supplier information for our international suppliers. New and existing 
suppliers are encouraged to self-register in Ariba as a woman-owned, minority-
owned or small business. We are active members of WEConnect International, 
a global network that connects women-owned businesses to qualified buyers 
around the world. We encourage buyers and contract administrators to cross 
check the WEConnect database to identify potential women-owned suppliers that 
may meet their needs. For the first time, we are disclosing procurement spend 
with diverse and small businesses in our ESG Performance Data. 
Responsible Sourcing of Minerals & Metals
While all of our suppliers (goods and services and minerals and metals) undergo 
the same initial screening process, we maintain a specialized process specifically 
for suppliers of minerals and metals. This process is in alignment with our 
Responsible Sourcing of Minerals Policy, which commits us to producing and 
sourcing minerals and metals responsibly, including respecting human rights; 
preventing bribery, fraud and corruption; and implementing the OECD Guidance. 
We have been implementing the policy across our copper smelting, refining 
and semi-fabrication and molybdenum roasting operations since it was 
established. In 2023, we expanded the program to include other minerals and 
metals determined to be in scope at our Stowmarket ferromolybdenum plant. 
Our policy and implementation of the OECD Guidance is also a requirement 
of the ICMM Mining Principles Framework, Copper Mark, Molybdenum 
Mark, Responsible Steel and the London Metal Exchange (LME) Policy on 
Responsible Sourcing of LME-Listed Brands.
The Board's CRC receives an annual update on our responsible sourcing of 
minerals program and at the management-level, the SLT oversees and receives 
regular updates on our performance. FCX has established a Responsible 
Sourcing of Minerals & Metals Standard Operating Procedure, which defines 
the process, roles and responsibilities across our organization. Implementation 
of this procedure is supported by our Responsible Sourcing Working Group and 
dedicated committees made up of individuals from FCX’s business units and 
corporate office. The committees meet periodically to review outcomes of the 
source review process.
Core sample from our Morenci operation, Arizona.
 41
Minerals & Metals – Source Review Process 
Our minerals and metals source review process guides our analysis from  
risk identification through mitigation. This process has three main steps:  
(1) risk screening, (2) enhanced due diligence and (3) risk assessment and 
committee review.
1. Risk Screening
There are two parts of our risk screening step, which are carried out in parallel: 
identifying potential risks or “flags” in our mineral and metal supply chains related 
to conflict-affected and high-risk areas (CAHRAs), as defined by the OECD 
Guidance; and identifying risks associated with our suppliers’ business activities. If 
flags are not identified in either the CAHRA or supplier risk screenings, no further 
action is required. 
We utilize the TDi Copper Due Diligence Tool (TDi Tool), developed and 
maintained by the ICA and TDi Sustainability, a global sustainability consultancy, 
to screen the origin and transit countries of mineral and metal sources and 
determine the presence of potential CAHRA risks. The TDi Tool rates the likelihood 
that a country meets the OECD Guidance definition of a CAHRA by assessing it 
against a set of 11 indicators related to corruption, human rights and governance 
(i.e., issues associated with the risks described in Annex II of the OECD Guidance). 
The results are classified into green, orange or red flag countries as defined by 
thresholds established by TDi Sustainability. FCX reviews these thresholds annually 
against other tools (e.g., the Responsible Minerals Initiative Country Risk Map 
and CAHRA list developed for the EU Conflict Minerals Regulation) and our own 
experiences in our compliance program, operations and supplier engagements, to 
determine if the thresholds are adequate. 
In 2023, FCX lowered the default thresholds to reflect our knowledge of various 
country risks and risk tolerance, resulting in 18 additional countries with higher risk 
determinations than the defaults. If an orange or red CAHRA flag is raised in this 
step, enhanced due diligence is required. Separately, the potential for supplier 
risks is evaluated using FCeX and our assessment of whether the supplier has 
shareholder interests in, or is trading from or through, a CAHRA. If a supplier red 
flag is raised in this step, enhanced due diligence is also required.
Confirming the presence of supplier red flags for mineral and metal traders presents 
a unique challenge. Because of complex legal and operational structures and the 
trading of myriad material types worldwide, it is often difficult to obtain adequate 
information from all our trader suppliers to determine whether they have shareholder 
interests in, or are trading from or through, a CAHRA. Given these limitations, 
we assume that the potential for such risks is present for all trader suppliers, 
automatically raising a supplier red flag. To address these flags, reasonable efforts 
are made to verify that any material being purchased through traders which has a 
known origin is not comingled with other materials that may have originated from 
or transited through a CAHRA. These efforts are in addition to our collection and 
evaluation of company policy, program and responsible sourcing-related information 
via FCeX. When the supplier is a trader, efforts are also made to issue an FCeX 
survey to the company producing the mineral for additional due diligence. 
OECD 5-STEP FRAMEWORK1
Establish strong company 
management systems
1
Identify & assess  
risks in the supply chain
2
Design & implement a strategy 
to respond to identified risks
3
Carry out independent third-party 
audit of supply chain due diligence
4
Report annually on supply 
chain due diligence*
5
1.	 www.OECD.org
*Our first OECD Step 5 Report was published in 2019, going forward we will be including this information in the Annual Sustainability Report.
View more data in  
the ESG Performance 
Data Section
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 42
2. Enhanced Due Diligence and Risk Assessment 
Enhanced due diligence can include conducting desktop research, reviewing 
third-party human rights and environmental data sources, consulting with internal 
human rights and compliance teams and seeking the assistance of external 
advisors. On an as-needed basis, we may also engage directly with suppliers 
to evaluate their due diligence programs, conduct on-site assessments and 
consult with affected, or otherwise relevant, stakeholders. When we purchase 
from traders, we work closely with the trading companies to understand their 
responsible sourcing programs and the level of due diligence that they have 
performed. We may also undertake our own due diligence and risk assessment of 
the source mine, if necessary. The information gathered as part of this enhanced 
due diligence step is evaluated and used to inform an in-depth risk assessment, 
which is presented to the Responsible Sourcing of Minerals Committees in the 
next step.
We have developed a streamlined approach at our copper rod mill operations 
in alignment with the OECD Guidance’s requirements for downstream supply 
chain actors given the short-term nature of the external cathode purchases made 
by these facilities. A custom, internal tool supports the rapid assessment of due 
diligence practices of smelters and refiners associated with the cathode brands in 
our supply chain. This tool compiles up-to-date information on the CAHRA status 
of each smelter and refiner’s location, along with indicators of the likelihood of 
third-party audits having been conducted on the sites’ due diligence practices 
(e.g., Copper Mark awards, Joint Due Diligence Standard assessments and LME 
registrations). Such information allows us to identify cathode brands that may 
be considered a higher risk, requiring additional discussion by the Responsible 
Sourcing of Minerals Committees.
3. Committee Review 
Depending on the business unit(s) for which a source is being evaluated, one of 
the three Responsible Sourcing of Minerals Committees reviews the results of the 
risk screening, enhanced due diligence and risk assessment and then assigns a 
risk level and related path forward: 
•	 Acceptable risk: Continue sourcing with no conditions 
•	 Moderate risk: Continue sourcing with conditions, implement risk mitigation 
actions or formal risk management plans, depending on the severity of the 
issue(s), in collaboration with the supplier 
•	 Unacceptable risk: Cease sourcing and take steps to terminate contracts with 
an existing supplier or do not enter into a relationship with a new supplier 
The applicable committee also reviews progress on the risk mitigation actions or risk 
management plans established when moderate risks are identified. If there are no 
significant, measurable improvements after six months, the committee may engage 
with the supplier to determine the appropriate next steps. The applicable committee 
also oversees the termination of a supplier when unacceptable risks are identified.
Mineral & Metal 
Risk Screening
Supplier 
Risk Screening
Enhanced  
Due Diligence
Risk Assessment
Continue Sourcing 
With Conditions
Implement Risk  
Mitigation Actions or 
Risk Management Plan
Cease Sourcing  
or Do Not Enter  
Relationship
Continue Sourcing 
With No Conditions
Committee  
Review
CAHRA 
Risk
Supplier 
Risk
SOURCE REVIEW
NO FURTHER 
ACTION
NO
YES
YES
NO
NO FURTHER 
ACTION
 43
Minerals & Metals - Source Review and Outcomes 
In 2023, we identified 39 orange or red flags across our minerals and metals supply 
chains during the risk screening step, compared to 35 in 2022. The increase was 
primarily associated with the expansion of the program to include our Stowmarket 
ferromolybdenum plant. Each of these flags were associated with origin or transit 
country. No supplier red flags were identified other than those associated with 
traders, which were mitigated through our efforts to verify that the material being 
purchased was not comingled. For each of the flags, the enhanced due diligence 
and risk assessment were used to inform committee decisions on the path forward. 
Acceptable Risk 
Two internal copper concentrate sources (one from our Grasberg operations and 
one from our Cerro Verde mine) were flagged due to origin but, as internal sources, 
we classify them as presenting acceptable risks. We maintain extensive programs to 
identify and mitigate human rights and environmental risks at both operations. 
Nine external sources were also determined to present acceptable risks, as the 
enhanced due diligence step did not detect significant risks through desktop 
research. For upstream supply chain actors, this research included a review of 
external allegations and supplier policies and programs to identify and mitigate 
human rights and environmental risks. For downstream supply chain actors, this 
research evaluated the extent to which third-party audits have been conducted on 
our suppliers’ due diligence practices, per the OECD Guidance.
Moderate Risk 
Two other internal sources were flagged due to the transit route taken by copper 
concentrates produced at our U.S. operations in Arizona exported through the Port 
of Guaymas in Sonora, Mexico (Mexico was an orange list country in 2023). The 
enhanced due diligence conducted for this flag revealed that there are risks related 
to a small amount of concentrate theft that has occurred during transit (less than 
0.1% over the last 5 years). In 2019, we disclosed the actions taken to address this 
risk. Through collaboration with our partners this risk continues to be well managed. 
Eleven external sources were determined to present moderate risks. This resulted 
in the implementation of risk mitigation actions through collaboration with 
suppliers, which, in 2023, involved utilizing their due diligence in addition to our 
own; receiving updates on their efforts to mitigate identified risks; continuing to 
monitor allegations through periodic desktop research and review of local media 
sources; and sharing our management systems and best practices to encourage 
continuous improvement of their operations. For some sources, we also limited 
or changed our agreements from long-term to smaller, spot contracts to allow for 
purchasing flexibility while we collected and evaluated more information. 
Unacceptable Risk 
Five external sources were determined to present an unacceptable level of risk 
and/or were sources where we would not be able to effectively mitigate the 
associated risks (e.g., we have little to no leverage). As a result, we eliminated 
these sources from our supply chain. Some examples of unacceptable risks 
included the source being located in an active conflict zone; experiencing 
extensive unresolved conflict with local communities; having an ownership 
structure that was incompatible with FCX policy; or being associated with OECD 
Guidance Annex II risk allegations that, despite significant efforts by FCX, could 
not be confirmed or denied. In particular, the decision to cease sourcing from one 
supplier followed an on-site audit conducted in 2022, which was described in our 
2022 OECD Step 5 Due Diligence Report. During this audit, the supplier did not 
provide sufficient access to the site so the source was subsequently excluded. 
Pending 
The decisions to source from 10 of the flagged suppliers remained pending at the 
end of 2023 and were still pending at the time this report was published. All of 
these were identified as potential replacement sources for one of our suppliers 
whose mine unexpectedly closed at the end of 2023. The enhanced due diligence 
and risk assessment for these sources is ongoing.
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING OF MINERALS COMMITTEES
ATLANTIC  
COPPER 
AMERICAS COPPER 
SMELTING,  
REFINING & ROD
CLIMAX  
MOLYBDENUM 
BUSINESS UNIT(S):
•	 Bagdad
•	 Fort Madison
•	 Sierrita
•	 Stowmarket
•	 Rotterdam
BUSINESS UNIT(S):
•	 Miami
•	 El Paso
BUSINESS UNIT(S):
•	 Atlantic Copper
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 44
Internal	
40% 
External	
60%
South America	
36%
Central America	
12% 
Southern Europe	
7%
Western Asia	
3%
North Africa	
1%
North America	
1%
36+12+7+3+1+1+J
60+40+J
COPPER 
CONCENTRATE
ORIGIN²
8+3+2+1+1+1+J
Internal	
84% 
External	
16%
South America	
9%
North America	
4%
Central America	
3% 
Eastern Europe	
<1%
Western Europe	
<1%
South-eastern Asia	
<1%
16+84+J
MOLYBDENUM
ORIGIN⁵
68+14+7+5+3+2+1+J
External	
100%
Southern Europe	
69% 
Central America	
14%
Western Europe	
7%
Northern Europe	
5%
North America	
3%
Eastern Europe	
2%
Western Asia	
<1%
100+J
RECYCLED
COPPER
ORIGIN⁴
4+3+1+J
Internal	
92% 
External	
8%
North America	
5%
South America	
3%
Central America	
<1%
8+92+J
COPPER 
CATHODE
ORIGIN³
1.	 Country groupings are based on the geographic regions defined under the Standard Country or Area Codes for Statistical Use (known as M49) of the United Nations Statistics Division, where Mexico is classified as Central America.
2.	 External copper concentrate was purchased only by our Atlantic Copper smelter in 2023. The copper originating from Western Asia is associated with the blending facility of a trader who supplies us with a blend that, in 2023, was 
comprised of sources from South America and Western Asia.
3.	 External copper cathode was purchased primarily by our El Paso rod mill in 2023; a smaller amount was purchased by our Miami rod mill. 
4.	 External recycled copper was purchased primarily by our Atlantic Copper smelter in 2023; a smaller amount was purchased by our Miami smelter. The origin of recycled copper was determined based on the Joint Due Diligence 
Standard for Copper, Lead, Molybdenum, Nickel and Zinc definition, which is as follows: The point in the supply chain where the recycled material is returned to the immediate supplier of the recycler.
5.	 Tolled unroasted molybdenum concentrates were processed at our Fort Madison, Rotterdam, and Sierrita roasting facilities; tolled roasted molybdenum concentrates were processed at our Stowmarket ferromolybdenum plant. Tolling 
is an arrangement where materials are processed by a company on behalf of a client who retains ownership of the agreed to metals and/or volume of those materials.
Minerals & Metals - Origin1 of Externally Sourced Materials
Based on the decisions taken by the committees in 2023, the origins of external materials received at our facilities are shown 
below. Atlantic Copper also received copper sheets used to bundle recycled material for input to the smelter and Stowmarket 
received iron-bearing materials used for ferromolybdenum production. These are not depicted due to the small amount 
purchased (i.e., 0.05% of externally sourced material, in the case of copper sheets) or the lack of variation in origin (i.e., all from 
within Northern Europe, in the case of iron-bearing materials). 
 45
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP
Product stewardship is critical to our business across the suite of minerals and 
metals we produce. It entails a variety of activities that provide our customers 
with valuable data and insights, enables our products to enter global markets 
and to be used safely by downstream users. Activities range from complying 
with chemicals management regulations and encouraging the use of sound 
science when assessing the health, safety and environmental risks associated 
with our products to working with members of our value chains to provide 
information about the products we supply. We are an active member of the 
ICMM Materials Stewardship Facility and Steering Committee. We contribute to 
the working groups within the Facility and participate in studies and advocacy 
undertaken to inform multi-governmental institutions such as the OECD and 
United Nations on matters related to minerals and metals.
In 2023, we continued our participation in the Copper Mark chain of custody 
standard, which aims to connect parties from the mine through to OEMs, 
enabling Copper Mark status to be identified throughout the entire value chain. 
We successfully implemented the chain of custody process with two customers 
purchasing cathode from Morenci.
FCX's Product Stewardship Forum meets several times per year and is comprised 
of members of our commercial, sustainability, quality, health and safety, and 
operations teams. The Forum tracks, assesses and monitors work across a variety 
of issues related to product stewardship globally.
UNDERSTANDING OUR PRODUCT FOOTPRINT
Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) provide an overview of environmental impacts 
across a product’s life cycle to enable producers to identify improvement 
opportunities and trade-offs. Globally, governments are increasingly using LCAs 
as impact assessments in circular economy frameworks and for carbon and water 
footprint comparisons. 
FCX collaborates with our various industry associations to support the development 
of industry-specific LCAs. ICA has developed industry-average LCA profiles for 
copper concentrate and cathode as well as guidance on mapping the carbon 
footprint of copper production. In early 2024, the Copper Development Association 
(the partner organization to ICA in North America) completed an LCA of copper rod 
used for electrical applications. In 2023, IMOA began the data collection process to 
update existing LCAs on metallurgical molybdenum products in 2024. 
FCX is also advancing our own LCA efforts to develop carbon footprint datasets for 
each of our products to support our downstream customers and OEMs to better 
estimate their own GHG emissions. In 2023, we began working with a consultant to 
conduct a carbon footprint and LCA of our molybdenum and copper products. We 
have completed work to develop a data management process for several sites and 
will continue this work in 2024. For more information on our efforts to reduce our 
carbon footprint through our climate strategy, please see the Climate section.
LME PASSPORT IMPLEMENTATION 
FCX currently has nine copper cathode brands registered and in compliance 
with the LME policy, which allows us to deliver our products against LME 
contracts with purchasers. The LME has a publicly accessible digital 
credentials register for LME-listed producers, which FCX has leveraged. 
The Passport allows producers to upload disclosures of their sustainability 
metrics, certifications and targets at the entity, asset and brand levels, and 
allows users to view and compare across entities and brands. The LME 
regularly reviews and expands the list of disclosures that can be included in 
the Passport. FCX has added all entity-and brand-level disclosure for which 
we are eligible, including those for our nine LME-deliverable brands and four 
non-LME deliverable brands.
Cerro Verde operation, Peru.
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 46
Cerro Verde operation, Peru.
 47
The well-being of people — whether our workforce, partners or community 
members — is essential to the success of our business and at the core of all we do. 
We are deeply committed to engaging and building trusting, ongoing relationships 
with the people most impacted by our operations. The programs and progress 
described in this section reflect our continued focus on empowering our workforce 
and the people in our host communities to thrive today and into the future.  
We continue to work to protect the health, safety and well-being of our workforce. 
In 2023, we focused our efforts on advancing safety education and training among 
groups with higher incident rates at our North America operations. We also 
furthered our work to emphasize our safety expectations among our contractors, 
and we are implementing an online management tool which will help to monitor 
on-site contractor safety performance. In addition to a traditional focus on safety, 
we aim to support our employees with expanded mental health care benefits, 
including training front-line leaders to identify and support psychological safety.  
In 2023, we continued to recruit people to our workforce and have increased the 
percentage of women employed globally to 14.8%. We are attracting a younger 
generation of employees through internships across our operations.    
Recognizing that our workforce and communities are often one in the same, 
we remain focused on supporting the health and well-being of the people in 
the host communities where we operate. In 2023, we continued to support 
the communities where we operate by embracing the cultural heritage of our 
Indigenous neighbors and promoting respect for human rights wherever we do 
business. For example, through cultural sensitivity and awareness training, our 
Building Trust approach has deepened our engagement with our Indigenous 
neighbors in North America and Indonesia.
Empowered 
People 
& Resilient 
Communities
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 48
HEALTH, SAFETY & WELL-BEING
WHY IT MATTERS
Mining by its nature is associated with hazardous work that must be carefully 
understood and managed. Every day, our mining workforce engages in hazardous 
activities that could lead to a serious injury or fatality if work precautions are not 
followed. Activities such as drilling and blasting rock, operating heavy machinery, 
using chemicals, working with high-voltage electricity, working at heights or 
below surface and working with high-temperature materials are all high risk. 
Outside the fence line, mining can also create potentially hazardous exposures 
for local community members. Globally, different regions face different health 
and well-being challenges, and understanding these challenges at a local level is 
critical to supporting a healthy workforce and community.
OUR APPROACH
Safety is a core company value and is foundational to our sustainability approach. 
Our highest priority is the health, safety and well-being of our employees, 
contractors, suppliers and the communities where we operate. We believe that 
health and safety considerations are integral to, and fundamental for, all other 
functions in our organization, and we understand the health and safety of our 
workforce is critical to our operational efficiency and long-term success.
Our objective is to achieve zero workplace fatalities and to decrease injuries and 
occupational illnesses. As part of our commitment to providing a healthy and safe 
workplace, we strive to provide the training, tools and resources needed so our 
workforce can identify risks and consistently apply effective controls. We share 
information and key learnings about potential fatal events, high-risk incidents, and 
best practices throughout the company, and we engage with industry peers and 
professional organizations to share best practices and continuously improve our 
health and safety program.
We carefully monitor our workforce’s potential exposures to hazardous dust, 
chemicals, noise and similar agents to better control occupational health risks.  
We partner with occupational medicine experts to implement comprehensive 
medical screening for employees who work with potentially hazardous substances.
Our global health and safety strategy, “Safe Production Matters,” is focused on 
fatality prevention, eliminating systemic root causes of incidents and continuous 
improvement through robust management systems, which are supported by 
leaders empowering our teams to work safely. We further seek to prevent fatalities 
and high-risk incidents by leveraging technology to support safe work practices in 
the field and data analytics to identify opportunities for improvement.
In addition to safety, we aim to work in partnership with our host communities 
to support their overall health and well-being by monitoring and providing 
assistance in addressing regional health challenges such as malaria, tuberculosis, 
maternal health and lack of infrastructure, among others. Where appropriate, we 
seek to collaborate with local public health officials to support community-relevant 
health education and program development activities.
Operational leadership teams at each of our sites own their safety performance and 
are supported by our corporate health and safety team. Together, they develop and 
oversee our safety programs across the organization, supporting company-wide 
initiatives that recognize the values of our physical and psychological health and 
safety strategy, safety management systems and safety audit programs, and incident 
investigations. Our corporate team communicates safety performance to executive 
management regularly, including reviews of high-risk, potential fatal and fatal 
incidents. The CRC provides input on the overall direction of FCX’s health and safety 
programs and reviews safety statistics, trends and incident investigation reports. In 
the event of a fatality, executive management and the CRC are notified immediately 
and receive updates on the status of fatal incident investigations.
In 2023, we engaged a consultant to develop a “Health & Safety University” 
focused on building the technical and leadership competencies of our health 
and safety professionals in order to better support our frontline supervisors in 
the field. The new training resource was launched at the beginning of 2024.
 49
Policies & Programs
•	 Safety and Health Policy — States our commitments, processes and management systems to meet our health and 
safety objectives.
•	 Contractor Health, Safety and Environmental Manual — Defines the expectations and requirements for contractors 
working at our operations.
•	 Occupational Health and Safety Management System — Provides the framework for managing risks and compliance 
obligations and is certified in accordance with the ISO 45001 Health and Safety Management System, which requires 
third-party site-level verification of requirements.
WORKING HOURS AND FATIGUE 
MANAGEMENT POLICY
Effective fatigue management is a critical 
contributor to the overall management 
of our employees' safety. The majority 
of FCX's operations run 365 days a 
year, 24 hours a day requiring rotating 
shift schedules and, at times, business-
driven overtime. In 2023, we continued 
implementation of our recently updated 
Working Hours and Fatigue Management 
Policy by working with site human 
resources representatives and providing 
training. The policy outlines working hour 
limitations designed to reduce fatigue and 
promote wellness for our employees.
El Abra operation, Chile.
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 50
FATAL RISK MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
Our culture of leading by example at all levels of the organization and our Safe Production Matters strategy 
underpin our Fatal Risk Management (FRM) program. The goal of our FRM program is to achieve zero 
workplace fatalities by strengthening preventative measures and raising awareness to fatal risks and the 
measures necessary to mitigate them. Fundamental to the FRM program is our effort to proactively identify 
potential fatal risks in the field and apply the controls most critical for their avoidance. We continue to build 
on the program by identifying new potential fatal risks common to some or all of our operations. For each 
identified risk, we communicate the necessary critical controls to address those risks across our operations.
We expect all employees and contractors to take ownership of their safety and the safety of their co-
workers. Our frontline supervisors play a vital role in the success of FRM by discussing risks with their 
teams, raising awareness of the critical controls and helping employees to eliminate distractions and 
remain focused. Leadership teams are responsible for setting safety expectations and promoting a culture 
where our workforce is empowered to work safely including using their stop-work authority in the event 
of a safety concern. We expect our workforce to stop work immediately if critical controls are missing or 
ineffective, or if there is a concern that work cannot be performed safely.
We regularly verify critical controls to assess their proper use and effectiveness to mitigate high-risk events. 
In 2023, we worked to enhance our employees’ ability to identify relevant fatal risks by developing task-
based verification forms that are available in the field. Critical control verifications also provide leading 
indicator data to strengthen our FRM program, as well as our overall health and safety management 
system. A critical control checklist is available on mobile devices to assist supervisors to identify and 
capture variances in our critical controls and provide real-time information to support faster action plans 
to address identified gaps. To further support employees in a mobile work environment, our enterprise 
workspace provides offline capabilities and quick access to our FRM questions and safety forms. Our FRM 
field books include QR codes for our teams to scan using their mobile devices to quickly access policies 
and additional information on critical controls in the field.
To support continuous improvement and learn from any potential fatal, fatal and/or certain high-
risk incidents, we conduct a thorough root cause analysis. The results are the basis for identifying, 
implementing and verifying corrective and preventive actions and working toward sustained improvement. 
Required follow-up includes a review of findings with senior management and site-level senior leadership 
who oversee and are responsible for implementing corrective actions. We also seek opportunities for 
company-wide education and improvements.
We believe sharing safety incidents and learnings among employees and across sites is critical to 
improving performance. While information sharing has been a common practice for many years, in 2023, 
we introduced Safety InSight — a monthly internal news feature dedicated to sharing safety-related stories 
with the goal of further informing, inspiring and enhancing safe production.
RESPONDING TO POTENTIAL FATAL EVENTS
Potential fatal events (PFEs) are a subset of high-
risk events where a fatal injury could have occurred, 
but did not occur. We believe these events present 
the most significant opportunities to learn and 
reduce the potential for future reoccurrence. PFEs 
are internally identified and defined based on three 
primary criteria: (1) whether there was a fatal risk/
hazard, (2) whether individual(s) were exposed to 
the risk/hazard, and (3) whether any controls were 
inadequate or missing. For example, in 2023, our 
Grasberg operations experienced several PFEs 
and one contractor fatality related to collisions or 
potential collisions between larger vehicles and 
smaller vehicles or pedestrians. In response, PT-
FI established two new committees, the Mobile 
Equipment Interaction Committee, and Vehicle 
Interaction Control Effectiveness Committee to 
identify and reduce or eliminate hazards related to 
interactions between people and equipment.
 51
PERFORMANCE
Considerable effort has been devoted to identifying hazards in the workplace, with 
the goal of mitigating them before individuals are harmed and analyzing events 
that occurred to identify missing or inadequate controls for the future. Clearly and 
consistently classifying incidents helps us to better identify contributing factors 
and ultimately, achieve a greater level of prevention.
At the highest level, tracking of our company-wide Total Recordable Incident Rate 
(TRIR) indicator provides insight on safety incidents that resulted in the occurrence 
of an injury (fatalities, lost-time incidents, restricted-duty incidents and medical 
treatments). In 2023, FCX employees and contractors worked approximately 200 
million hours and had 605 recordable injuries, compared with approximately 
153 million hours and 590 recordable injuries in 2022. Our consolidated TRIR 
performance improved in 2023 to 0.60 on a 200,000-hour basis, and we achieved 
our 2023 target of 0.71. Much of the TRIR improvement is attributable to a significant 
increase in the number of hours safely worked by contractor personnel at the 
Manyar smelter construction project.
We further classify all events according to our risk register based on the severity of the 
consequence, the likelihood of each event’s occurrence and the quality of the controls. 
The percentage of high-risk incidents (those that have the potential to result in life-
altering permanent disability or fatality) in 2023 increased by 2% from the prior year. 
In 2023, 91% of incidents were classified as low- or medium-risk incidents, which 
include incidents such as fractures, sprains and lacerations. An additional 938 
near misses were reported in 2023.
We previously analyzed all safety incidents across North America, and found 
approximately 89% of incidents that occurred in 2022 involved employees with 
fewer than three years of experience; employees working under supervisors with 
fewer than three years of experience; and general laborers, trainees, and equipment 
and process operators. In 2023, we focused our efforts on advancing safety 
education and training among these higher risk groups. We continued to enhance 
employee onboarding, implemented more safety-focused new hire check-ins, and 
leadership at our North America operations have taken steps to set clear safety 
expectations and emphasize the importance of being mentally present and focused 
in the field. As a result of these and other initiatives, incident rates among the three 
groups improved in 2023. While we are encouraged by the improvement, we remain 
steadfast in our efforts to reduce injuries and incidents.
HEALTH & SAFETY PERFORMANCE DATA2
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
Total Recordable Events
528
419
457
590
605
% High-Risk1
11%
7%
7%
7%
9%
TRIR3
0.74
0.69
0.70
0.77
0.60
TRIR Annual Target
0.73
0.70
0.69
0.69
0.71
Number of Fatalities4
3
5
2
1
1
1. 	 % High-Risk = (High Risk Incidents / Total Recordable Events). Our risk matrix defines "high risk" events as incidents that have the potential to result in permanent disabilities or fatalities.
2. 	 Reported health and safety performance is based on Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) reporting criteria. Data include employees (full-time and part-time employees on a full-time equivalent basis) and contractors. 
This table reflects incidents incurred at operating and non-operating sites, exploration activities, projects and divested or closed assets until the year of divestiture or closure. Certain data from 2019, 2020 and 2021 have been 
adjusted to include divested or closed assets, which had previously been excluded from health and safety performance data. Rates are calculated per 200,000 hours worked, except where indicated. Metrics within this table are 
calculated based on employee and contractor reporting of injuries, illness and near misses.
3. 	 TRIR = ((Fatalities + Lost-time Incidents + Restricted-duty Incidents + Medical Treatment) x 200,000) / Total Hours Worked. TRIR is equivalent to MSHA All-Incidence Rate (AIR).
4.	 In FCX's 2022 Form 10-K published on February 15, 2023, FCX reported 3 on-site fatalities in 2022. All 3 fatalities have since been classified by MSHA as independent medical episodes.	
2019 2020 
2022
2021
44+28+28+28+36
20%
15%
10%
5%
0
TOTAL RECORDABLE EVENTS 
(% HIGH-RISK1)
2023
View more data in  
the ESG Performance 
Data Section
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 52
Fatal Events
Effective fatality prevention is paramount, and we are committed to learning 
from, and improving upon, our own experiences and those from across the 
industry to improve our fatality prevention programs. 
Following the death or serious injury of one of our employees, we initiate 
multiple steps of care after the initial emergency response and provide 
assistance for the employee’s family. When an employee is seriously injured, 
the company provides support to the employee and his or her family members 
during the employee’s medical treatment. In the case of a workplace fatality, we 
assist with funeral arrangements as appropriate. In addition, senior leadership 
reviews the evaluation of each incident to determine compensation for the 
family, irrespective of liability and in addition to local requirements.
We encourage our contractors to approach these types of incidents in a similar 
manner and are committed to working with our business partners to address 
and cooperate in providing remedy when our actions cause or contribute to 
adverse impacts.
Regrettably, in 2023, a PT-FI contractor was fatally injured in a vehicle interaction 
while providing ground support to a telehandler in the highlands near the mill 
complex. As with all potential fatal and fatal events, an investigation and root 
cause analysis was conducted following the incident. The incident investigation 
identified several critical control failures, including the failure to conduct a fatal 
risk verification and poor traffic management.
Following the incident, PT-FI reviewed the operational activities where multiple 
pieces of heavy equipment operate in close proximity in different areas across 
the site. The review identified key corrective actions that included: establishing 
the Vehicle Interaction Control Effectiveness Committee and formalized traffic 
management plans (where applicable), conducting a site-wide risk assessment of 
material handling activities to standardize material handling methods that reduce 
the need for spotters, and reviewing the training, competencies, responsibilities 
necessary for supervisors.
KNOWN COMMUNITY & INDIRECT FATALITIES
In an effort to develop a more holistic understanding of the health and safety 
impacts of our mining activities both within and beyond our boundaries and 
operational control, we began disclosing known community and indirect fatalities 
in 2020. Our ultimate goal is to positively contribute to the improved health and 
safety of the people in our host communities by supporting their efforts to avoid 
reoccurrence of these incidents.
There is no standard definition of known community and indirect fatalities. For 
purposes of our reporting, we exclude fatalities related to illnesses and natural 
causes. We include (1) non-occupational fatalities that occurred within our area of 
operations, (2) fatalities associated with mining activities that occurred off-site and 
outside of our control (such as transportation of goods and services), (3) fatalities 
related to security events in our communities, and (4) fatalities associated with 
illegal artisanal mining.
During 2023, there were five known community and indirect fatalities, all 
associated with illegal artisanal mining panners at PT-FI seeking unrecovered 
gold in our controlled riverine tailings system. Four of the fatalities were caused 
by drowning and one occurred when a person was cutting a pipe that transports 
the metal concentrate. More information on how we are working to help build a 
multi-stakeholder artisanal mining strategy can be found in the Human Rights 
section of this report and in our annual report to the Voluntary Principles Plenary 
available on our website.
SAFETY PERFORMANCE AT THE MANYAR SMELTER PROJECT
Of the approximately 200 million hours worked by FCX employees and 
contractors in 2023, approximately 25% of them were worked at the Manyar 
smelter project. With a large contractor workforce, a significant focus of the 
project has been to support Chiyoda, our engineering, procurement and 
construction contractor in aligning safety expectations across thousands of 
temporary workers. Over the course of the project, Chiyoda has trained more 
than 50,000 people on our combined safe work practices and procedures. 
Collectively with our contractors and subcontractors, we have been able to 
celebrate multiple, long periods with no incidents, achieving more than 30 
million hours worked consecutively without a lost time incident. In 2023, the 
project achieved a TRIR of 0.13 well ahead of its goal of 0.34.
 53
CRISIS MANAGEMENT PLANNING
All FCX sites are required to have a crisis management plan in place to effectively 
respond to and support the safety of all people who could potentially be impacted 
by a crisis event at or near one of our operations. These plans guide our operational 
approach to preparing for, responding to, and recovering from potential emergencies 
or crises. Our crisis management guidelines set the minimum level of direction for 
crisis preparedness, response and recovery activities with the overarching goal of 
minimizing the impact a crisis may have on our workforce and our host communities. 
Building from these guidelines, each site is expected to develop, document and test 
their site-specific plans.
We continued our efforts to incorporate the Tailings Standard requirements into 
our crisis management guidelines so that our crisis response plans are consistent, 
aligned and informed by stakeholders. We met the August 2023 Tailing Standard 
conformance timeline for our Morenci TSFs, including successfully conducting a 
tabletop exercise with external emergency management agencies and community 
stakeholders. We continue to work towards meeting the Tailings Standard 
conformance timeline across our other sites. For more information, please refer to the 
Tailings Management section.
During the year, the crisis management teams at our sites were provided updated 
pocket reference books meant to refresh team members on their expected 
assignments in the event of a crisis and to reinforce performance and training 
objectives. We also established a crisis management collaboration team who meets 
quarterly to share best practices across our sites and to provide support and learnings. 
Finally, we established and implemented a corporate off-site recovery plan and trained 
senior leaders in the event a crisis occurs that has an impact beyond our boundaries.
EMERGENCY RESPONSE AT GRASBERG
PT-FI's Grasberg operations in Indonesia have a mature and robust crisis 
management program. In early 2023, PT-FI’s emergency response team 
responded to flooding and landslides, which caused damage to infrastructure 
near the milling complex. In an effort to improve our process to address 
potential future flood incidents at the milling complex, a standard operating 
procedure for flood and landslide response was developed and a joint exercise 
was held to test the established protocols. Additionally, the emergency 
response team at PT-FI’s underground mining operations developed simplified 
underground emergency guidelines, conducted six exercises and provided 
more than 12,000 hours of employee training.
EL PASO REFINERY PARTICIPATES IN FIRST  
RESPONDER TRAINING EXERCISES
In the event there is a local or on-site emergency, our emergency response 
teams must be prepared to work with local first responders. In 2023, our El 
Paso Refinery hosted three emergency response training exercises with the 
El Paso Fire Department and El Paso Police Department’s Bomb Squad. The 
exercises included a technical rescue from a confined space, a technical 
rescue from heights, a response to a hazardous material leak and victim 
recovery and a bomb threat. The El Paso emergency response team was also 
able to observe and participate in each of the exercises and learned about 
ropes rescue, hazardous material response procedures, incident command, 
how to identify suspicious packages, and medical and rescue techniques.
Sierrita operation, Arizona.
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 54
SUPPORTING EMPLOYEE WELL-BEING 
We have invested in programs to support our employees’ overall health and 
wellness, which extend beyond their time on the job. Notably, for our employees 
in the U.S., our enhanced employee assistance program provides more options 
for personalized care and life resources, including expanded mental health care 
benefits. The expanded offerings include eight free therapy sessions for every 
member of an employee’s household, personalized care plans and ongoing 
support, coaching to set and reach goals, and wellness exercises to relieve stress 
and improve sleep, along with experts to assist our employees in connecting to 
helpful resources for life events, such as legal and financial services and child and 
elder care. We are evaluating opportunities to expand these services to enhance 
well-being programs beyond our U.S. sites, and we have worked to increase the 
awareness of our current services. 
Psychological Safety 
We believe that better teams are built when we respect each other's points of view, 
work collaboratively, raise concerns about projects, and learn from other people's 
experiences. One of the ways we are working to support psychological safety is 
by training our frontline leaders on emotional triggers and conflict resolution. The 
importance of psychological safety is also incorporated into new hire orientation. In 
2024, we plan to expand education and training related to psychological safety.
Preventing the Spread of Tuberculosis
Tuberculosis poses an ongoing challenge in many parts of the world. While 
tuberculosis is rare in North America, it is more common in South America and 
much more prevalent in Indonesia, which experiences infection rates among the 
highest in the world, according to the World Health Organization. Someone with 
tuberculosis may experience no symptoms, which is why our mitigation efforts 
in Indonesia and South America include screening new hires and yearly exams, 
along with awareness training. Workers who become infected are provided 
medication by our partner agencies and encouraged to isolate until the disease 
has run its course and they are prepared to safely reenter the work environment.
In addition to employing medical best practices to help protect our employees 
and the local communities, FCX’s medical director participates in regular 
calls with medical doctors representing other members of ICMM to share our 
experiences and support other companies in mitigating the disease.
In 2023, FCX received the Exemplar Award from Ending Workplace Tuberculosis 
for our efforts to deliver workplace tuberculosis programs that help keep workers, 
their families and communities safe from the threat of tuberculosis.
We have invested in programs to 
support our employees’ overall health 
and wellness, which extend beyond 
their time on the job. 
SUPPORTING CONTRACTOR SAFETY
We have also been assessing our contractor management processes to 
strengthen our management and interaction with contractors. In 2022, our 
contractor engagement team — individuals from supply chain, safety, operational 
improvement, operations and business units — identified opportunities to 
standardize safety, training and environmental requirements across all North 
American sites. The team also worked to enhance the onboarding process to 
more consistently educate contractors on their responsibilities and the resources 
available to them, such as the availability of the Compliance Line to ask questions 
and report issues or concerns. The team began rolling out the new process and 
application in early 2024 in a phased approach. This includes issues beyond 
safety, such as our human rights, environmental or other policies. Leadership 
continues to communicate about the lessons learned from safety events 
associated with contractors, such as specific actions teams can take to help 
mitigate fatal risks and prevent reoccurrence of incidents.
In late 2023, we began work to implement ISNetworld to monitor on-site 
contractor safety performance across our North America operations. Once 
fully rolled out in 2024, contractors will not be granted site access unless 
they meet our safety expectations. ISNetworld is an online contractor and 
supplier management platform that helps facilitate the exchange of information 
needed to manage risk, support sustainability and strengthen relationships. 
Our international operations have similarly implemented contractor safety 
management tools relevant to their operations.
 55
COMMUNITY HEALTH AND WELL-BEING
Positively contributing to community health and well-being in our host 
communities is an extension of our core value and approach to safety and aligns 
to our focus on supporting community resilience. In many cases, our workforce 
and our host communities are one in the same. By supporting the fundamental 
health needs of our communities, we believe that we are also contributing to the 
safety of our workforce. Each of our host communities have different community 
health profiles in terms of maturity of the healthcare system and levels and types 
of background disease. We seek to understand these conditions and work in 
partnership with our host communities to address regional health problems.
In the U.S., several of our rural host communities have identified food insecurity 
as a persistent challenge. In 2023, we supported food pantries, farm stands and 
other food distribution organizations in Arizona, Colorado, New Mexico and Texas 
as they work to improve food security across the Southwestern U.S. Beyond 
food distribution, our collaborative efforts seek to support community education, 
community-driven food production and local food sovereignty and resilience.
In Chile, our El Abra operations have created and implemented an agricultural 
fund that promotes agricultural production, marketing and cooperation among 
farmers to increase the availability of healthy and sustainable food in the rural 
areas of Alto El Loa, Quillagua, Ollagüe and Calama. The site also partners 
with Fundación La Semilla to provide local farmers with specialized technical 
assistance to increase yields, enhance irrigation capacity and efficiency, improve 
reproductive management of animals, purchase of machinery, encourage use 
of endemic seeds and optimize greenhouses. In 2023, the fund supported 32 
projects, including 29 individual farmers and 3 farming cooperatives.
Along the coast, El Abra’s Coastal Edge Sustainable Development program 
benefits more than 400 people in the community of Tocopilla by supporting 
fishery practices to improve food safety. El Abra partners with Proloa (a local 
development organization) which provides technical assistance to support 
economic opportunity, health and capacity of the local region. Projects supported 
through the partnership include upgraded seafood maintenance systems and 
boat docks, acquisition of generators and freezers to improve food processing and 
storage, and mobile warehouses and safety systems.
During 2023, Cerro Verde worked with the health organizations in the 5 district 
influence areas surrounding the operation to provide them with supplies as well as 
equipment for the detection of anemia, benefiting approximately 5,600 residents, 
including pregnant mothers and children under 5 years old.
Community nutrition program near 
our Cerro Verde operation, Peru.
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 56
PT-FI’S COMMITMENT TO COMMUNITY HEALTH
PT-FI recognizes environmental and community health as an operational 
imperative and is dedicated to monitoring, managing and mitigating potential 
environmental and community health impacts. In addition to its ongoing 
comprehensive environmental monitoring and analysis program, PT-FI has 
previously conducted various risk assessments to evaluate the potential health 
risks associated with possible exposure to tailings and other mining waste 
constituents around our Grasberg operations. 
Most recently, PT-FI undertook a multi-year human health assessment with 
support from various third parties. The human health assessment commenced 
with a comprehensive risk assessment conducted by Gradient Corporation, a 
third-party environmental and risk sciences firm. Following completion of the 
risk assessment, the human health assessment continued with broad-based 
community health surveys conducted by the Mimika local health authority (LHA) 
with PT-FI’s assistance. There were no impacts attributable to PT-FI’s operations 
(inclusive of tailings and overburden erosion) that were determined to be a priority 
focus following the results of these assessments. However, the surveys did identify 
critical public health interventions needed in the short-term in Mimika, specifically 
identifying malaria prevention, clean water, maternal health and nutrition. To learn 
more about PT-FI’s human health assessment, please see the Community Health 
section of FCX’s 2022 Sustainability Report.
In response to the results of the community health surveys, PT-FI and the LHA 
agreed to collaborate on addressing the priority public health challenges, with the 
local Mimika government leading the efforts, as summarized in the table on the next 
page. In addition to the collaboration agreement with the LHA, PT-FI continues to 
work closely with the local Mimika government to support the provision of health 
services in the region as it has done for many years. In coordination with the local 
authorities and non-governmental organizations, PT-FI and International SOS will 
continue to implement programs for health education, prevention, and the treatment 
of diseases within and around PT-FI's operational area. 
Community health outreach near the 
Grasberg minerals district, Indonesia.
 57
PT-FI’s Contribution to Public Health Challenges
In response to the results of the regency-wide community health surveys, PT-FI and the LHA have agreed to collaborate on addressing public health challenges, with the 
Mimika Regency government leading the efforts.
MIMIKA LOCAL HEALTH AUTHORITY & PT-FI PUBLIC HEALTH COLLABORATION 
LHA Public Health Focus Areas
Program Objectives
PT-FI Supporting Actions
Malaria Control  
and Prevention Program
Malaria is a major health challenge in 
Mimika and efforts will support achieving 
Indonesia's 2030 National Malaria 
Elimination goals
PT-FI is working with the LHA to create a strategic plan to expand and improve the 
malaria control program offered by the Timika Malaria Control Center, which was 
established by the LHA and PT-FI’s partner organizations. The Center sprayed 
approximately 20,000 residual houses in Timika and contributed to malaria awareness by 
engaging approximately 14,000 community members in malaria prevention education 
activities during 2023.
Clean Water and 
Sanitation Facilities
Activities will focus on the infrastructure 
needed to provide access to clean water 
and improved sanitation
PT-FI will be working with the Mimika Regency government on various projects to repair 
and improve existing infrastructure as well as to develop new clean water facilities. These 
facilities may include deep groundwater wells, rainwater collection systems, surface 
water, spring water and desalination processes in coastal villages. In 2023, PT-FI 
transferred the responsibilities for operation and maintenance of a new water treatment 
plant in Kuala Kencana to the Mimika Regency government.
Maternal Health
Focused on improving nutrition and health 
access for pregnant women
PT-FI supports maternal health through collaborative efforts with community-based 
organizations and investments in integrated healthcare centers. In addition to providing 
medical care, integrated healthcare centers provide nutrition services to expecting 
mothers and children. Pregnant women are also provided with insect repellent to help 
protect against mosquito-borne diseases.
Malnutrition Interventions
Focused on addressing stunting and 
improving nutrition among children
During 2023, PT-FI began collaborating with the United States Agency for International 
Development (USAID) and World Vision Indonesia on their program to address stunting 
and improve nutrition among children in Indonesia as it pertains to the Papuan people 
living in the Mimika, Nabire and Asmat regencies. In early 2024, PT-FI entered into the 
Partnership to Accelerate Stunting Reduction in Indonesia with USAID. PT-FI will contribute 
$3.53 million from 2024 to 2026 to support efforts, particularly in the Papua region.
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 58
WORKFORCE
WHY IT MATTERS
An inclusive and diverse workforce with a broad range of experience, knowledge, 
background, culture and heritage drives innovation, enhances operational 
performance and improves relationships with stakeholders. Mining, by its nature, 
presents challenges to cultivating and maintaining a qualified, skilled, experienced 
and diverse workforce. Commodity price fluctuations, geographically remote 
operations, shifting local demographics, and technological advances that are 
changing the way we work and compete for talent ― from both inside and outside 
the industry ― present challenges to hiring and retention.
OUR APPROACH
FCX believes our people are the foundation of our success and a competitive 
advantage. A key to our success is the ability to recruit, retain, develop and 
advance talented employees with diverse perspectives. We focus on attracting 
and retaining talented people by offering quality employment with fair and 
equitable compensation and benefits, as well as with opportunities for 
professional development and advancement. We prioritize a highly engaged, agile 
workforce and, in addition to physical and psychological safety, we aim to support 
the overall health and well-being of our workforce by providing access to health 
and wellness resources, and offering opportunities for flexible work schedules, 
where practicable, among other programs.
FCX operates in regions of varying ethnic, religious and cultural backgrounds, 
where we often are the largest employer in our host communities. As such, we 
are committed to fostering a company culture that is safety-focused, respectful, 
inclusive and representative of the communities where we operate. While we seek 
to design our programs and initiatives with standardized processes and priorities, 
we also recognize that each site is unique and the site-based leadership teams are 
best able to apply and adapt FCX’s human capital management programs to meet 
their site-specific needs. 
Our core policies ― including our PBC, Human Rights Policy, Business Partner 
Code of Conduct, Inclusion and Diversity Policy and Social Performance 
Policy ― together outline our company culture, our commitment to doing what 
is right, and the expectations we have of all employees and contractors. These 
global policies are publicly available and translated into the local languages of 
the regions where we operate. We fully expect our workforce to understand and 
comply with our trainings, policies, procedures, local cultures and laws.
PERFORMANCE
At December 31, 2023, we had approximately 27,200 employees. We also had 
contractors that employed 85,400 personnel across many of our operations 
(including the Manyar smelter project) at various times throughout 2023. Certain of 
these contractors work on projects that could be temporary in nature and fluctuate 
from year to year. Since 2021, we have experienced an increasingly competitive 
labor market and labor shortages at our North America operations. As a result of 
this labor shortage, we have hired more contract workers in recent years. The full-
time employee turnover rate at our North America operations has averaged 14% 
in the last three years compared to the approximate 5% average turnover rate at 
operations outside of North America. To learn more about our people management 
processes, see the Recruiting, Retaining & Developing our Workforce section.
LABOR RELATIONS
We continued to maintain positive and collaborative relationships with unions 
representing our employees, working cooperatively with 12 unions in 6 locations 
worldwide during 2023. Approximately 29% of our global employee population 
is covered by collective labor agreements (CLAs). Stowmarket and Rotterdam 
successfully negotiated new C LAs in 2023 and, in April 2024, PT-FI successfully 
negotiated a new 2-year CLA with its three employee unions at its Grasberg 
operations. The CLA between Atlantic Copper and its three unions expired in 
December 2022 but has been indefinitely extended and remains active by mutual 
agreement until the new agreement is negotiated.
In North America, our workforce is not covered by a CLA. Rather, our hourly, 
full-time employees at our active North America sites elect to work directly with 
company management using our Guiding Principles, which outline how we work 
together to achieve our collective goals within the values of the company. The 
Guiding Principles, which we update periodically with input from employees, 
outline clear expectations between our employees and the company, where a  
CLA does not exist.
We understand that prolonged strikes and other work stoppages can adversely 
affect our business, our workforce and regional stakeholders. As such, we seek to 
openly engage with all of our employees directly, and, where applicable, our union 
leadership to negotiate and uphold labor agreements. In 2023, there were no 
strikes or lockouts at any of our operations.
 59
Respecting Employee Rights
We recognize and respect the rights of our employees, including rights to freedom 
of association and collective bargaining, without interference or fear of retaliation. 
We prohibit compulsory and child labor and human trafficking. We do not tolerate 
any form of harassment, discrimination, and/or bullying against individuals based 
on race, color, sex, religion, national origin, sexual orientation, gender identity or 
expression, disability, age, veteran’s status or any other characteristic protected by 
applicable law.
Our global workforce is encouraged to speak up and report issues, incidents and 
concerns if they believe they have experienced or witnessed harassment, bullying 
and/or discrimination in the workplace. Employees have the option of reporting 
issues to on-site human resource professionals or confidentially to the Compliance 
Line; our employee assistance programs can also provide support on issues. 
Global employees receive comprehensive training annually on our PBC, which 
incorporates the principles of the U.S. workplace discrimination laws, and on-site 
training by human resources leads.
In addition, while our unionized employees report issues, incidents and concerns 
through the process described in their CLA, our North America hourly employees 
utilize the problem-solving procedure outlined in the Guiding Principles, which 
aims to provide a fair and impartial resolution of employment-related concerns. 
The problem-solving procedure is a four-step process that includes an external, 
professional arbitrator. FCX management is briefed on the complaints and results 
of each problem-solving procedure. We aim to investigate all reports, regardless of 
the reporting channel. If an allegation is substantiated, we aim to take appropriate 
disciplinary action.
48+25+23+4+J
GLOBAL WORKFORCE
(As of December 31, 2023)
North America	
48%
South America	
25% 
Indonesia	
23%
Europe/Other	
4%
EMPLOYEES
(~27,200) 65+24+8+3+J
Indonesia	
65%
North America	
24%
South America	
8%
Europe/Other	
3%
CONTRACTORS
(~85,400)
80%
60%
40%
20%
0%
EMPLOYEES UNDER COLLECTIVE 
LABOR AGREEMENTS IN 2023
47+58+65+0
29% FCX 
Global Average
Indonesia
Europe/Other
South America
North America1 
 FCX Global
1. 	 Data include only employees covered under CLA. In North America, our hourly 
employees continue to elect to work directly with management using our 
Guiding Principles contract rather than through union representation.
View more data in 
the ESG Performance 
Data Section
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 60
RECRUITING, RETAINING & DEVELOPING OUR WORKFORCE
During 2023, we continued to face challenges with an increasingly competitive 
and tight labor market, specifically in North America, and we remain committed 
to assessing our recruitment, training and development programs to adapt to the 
changing labor market and our employee needs. Attracting and retaining employees 
with the technical expertise required to achieve our strategic objectives and 
competing for skilled labor in the current environment are significant challenges.
FCX continues to advance efforts to strengthen inclusion and diversity in our 
workforce and people development pipeline. In 2023, we utilized our North 
America college recruitment platform to enhance the expansion of our candidate 
pipeline and broaden our pool of diverse candidates. This resulted in a 50% 
increase in outreach, and we established connections with 75 new schools. 
Notably, more than half of applicants were from underrepresented groups, 
including women and individuals from Black, Latin and Asian communities. 
Furthermore, in 2023, FCX actively participated in dozens of events at various 
campuses and conferences nationwide. 
Within our talent acquisition team, we formed a dedicated role to focus on 
attracting and engaging with active military members and veterans in the U.S. 
We also maintain a dedicated veteran career page, offering a tool to assist 
transitioning U.S. military personnel and veterans in aligning their skills with 
career opportunities at FCX. 
Leadership Competency Model
We continue to evolve our global people management resources (including 
our leadership competency model) to support our existing workforce, and by 
enhancing our engagement and retention efforts. We believe our frontline leaders 
are critical to employee development and retention, and our priority is to ensure 
our existing employees, especially our frontline leaders, are fully equipped to lead 
their teams to safely and responsibly deliver on our strategy now and in the future.
Our leadership competency model includes the core competencies needed for 
FCX leaders to be successful today and the skills we believe will be required in 
the future. The model’s core competencies guide our leadership development 
priorities and are categorized into four main areas: lead yourself, lead others, 
drive strategies and drive results. Several inclusion and diversity priorities are 
incorporated into the model such as valuing diversity, creating an inclusive culture, 
and supporting and enhancing psychological safety in the workplace.
FCX LEADERSHIP COMPETENCY MODEL
LEAD PEOPLE 
Create a safe environment and high-functioning 
empowered team where people understand 
their value and do their best work
DRIVE BUSINESS 
Foster success today and strategize to 
ensure future sustainability and growth in an 
ever-changing business environment
FCX LEADERS 
Build the Business
Lead Yourself
Drive Strategy
Lead Others
Drive Results
 61
Employee Training and Development 
To help employees develop the skills outlined in the leadership competency 
model, we have developed several learning modules for our frontline supervisors. 
Managers and non-managers received an average of 60 hours and 69 hours 
of training, respectively, during 2023. We also hosted a training summit, which 
tasked leaders responsible for employee training in North America to identify 
opportunities to collaborate, improve consistency and reinforce messages across 
different programs. 
Training programs are intended to mature and evolve in line with our commitment 
to continuous improvement. As part of our employee development, we conduct 
performance reviews annually to promote a culture of continuous improvement and 
professional growth. Performance reviews are based on competencies created by 
leadership that support FCX values and behaviors that are critical to accomplish work 
in a safe and respectful manner. We recognize that ongoing training and development 
of our employees are critical to having the right people with the necessary skills to 
safely deliver on our business strategy ― today and well into the future.
In addition to our employee development programs, we are also prioritizing 
opportunities to increase employee engagement and feedback to support retention 
over the long term. In 2023, we enhanced the onboarding process for new employees 
by lengthening orientation, providing more training and support resources, and 
establishing more formal feedback opportunities during an employee’s first year.
We have multiple employee feedback channels, such as on-site human resource 
professionals and the Compliance Line. We also have employee engagement 
surveys which we conduct on a site-by-site basis to better understand the employee 
experience across our operations. Engagement survey results have been used by site 
leadership to inform initiatives and to guide actions for improvement.
INSPIRING MINING CAREERS THROUGH INTERNSHIPS
Our Cerro Verde operations are working to motivate young professionals to 
establish careers in the mining industry through various internship programs. 
Cerro Verde’s Becarios Internship Program, a 12-month professional internship 
program for university graduates, attracted more than 15,000 applicants 
from across Peru for the 2024 program. Approximately 150 people (of whom 
approximately 30% are women) were selected to join the highly competitive 
program. Cerro Verde’s Technical Internship Program, a 6-month professional 
internship program for technical institution graduates, attracted approximately 
3,000 applicants for around 100 internships also for the 2024 program. We 
believe that programs like these can provide a pipeline of talented, young 
mining professionals for multiple career paths within the operations.
For information on our internship programs in North and South America and 
Indonesia, please visit the Careers website on fcx.com and the Internship 
Program webpage on ptfi.co.id.
In-Person Leadership Development Classes
We offer in-person classes across North America on supervisor basics, conflict 
communication strategies, business acumen and presentation skills. 
Objective: To prepare our employees on how to handle challenges related to 
managing people and to develop into strategic thinkers.
Programmatic Reach: Trained ~2,900 people (~32,000 hours) in 2023.
Live and Recorded Webinars
Online development courses focused on becoming a supervisor, unconscious bias, 
how to lead your former peers and psychological safety.
Objective: To reach wider audiences, provide supplemental training and reinforce 
concepts learned during in-person classes.
Programmatic Reach: Trained ~10,300 people (~8,200 hours) in 2023.
E-Learning Catalog
An online library of thousands of courses for professional and personal development 
that spans many different needs, from technical skills to interpersonal skills. This online 
catalog is available in multiple languages to our workforce across the company.
Objective: To expand skills and develop interpersonal skills.
Programmatic Reach: Trained ~1,800 people (~4,700 hours) from February through 
December 2023.
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 62
INCLUSION & DIVERSITY
As a global organization that operates in diverse parts of the world, we recognize 
the importance of inclusion and diversity as a company priority. FCX’s Inclusion 
and Diversity Policy is applicable to our global workforce and we have a cross-
functional inclusion and diversity leadership team, which helps guide the direction 
and implementation of our programs. Because inclusion and diversity differ across 
cultures, regional teams and dedicated site leaders are tasked with identifying and 
addressing local challenges and opportunities unique to each operation.  
Our inclusion and diversity program is currently prioritizing four focus areas:  
(1) awareness and education, (2) eliminating barriers, (3) supporting employees to 
achieve their full potential, and (4) increasing diverse candidate pools.
In 2023, ICMM announced a new collective commitment by its members to 
improve diversity, equity and inclusion across the industry. The new ICMM 
requirements commit member companies, including FCX, to take action to 
eliminate all forms of harassment and unfair discrimination from the workplace, 
to take proactive steps to achieve gender equality and the open participation 
of all peoples, and to reinforce the importance of psychological safety in the 
workplace in an effort to achieve zero harm. FCX has work underway to meet 
these expectations, including incorporating psychological safety priorities through 
a focus on mental health and well-being, enhancing our people management 
processes and training to build capacity across our workforce, seeking feedback 
through employee surveys and our grievance process, and deepening of our 
human rights efforts globally, among other efforts.
50+50+J
NORTH
AMERICA
50% Racially or 
Ethnically Diverse
99+1+J
GLOBAL  
BY NATIONALITY
99% Local Country 
Nationals
1% Expatriates/Third-Country 
Nationals
23+62+15+J
GLOBAL
BY AGE
23% 
Over 50
15% 
Under 30
62% Between
30-50
GLOBAL EMPLOYEES (as of December 31, 2023; figures exclude contractors)
97+3+J
INDONESIA
97% Indonesian 
Representation
44% Indigenous Papuan 
Representation
GLOBAL FACILITIES AND PERSONAL PROTECTIVE  
EQUIPMENT (PPE) ASSESSMENT 
We undertook a global assessment in 2023 to evaluate the accessibility of 
facilities and PPE for both men and women across our global operations. Some 
of our sites have initiated efforts to improve their facilities and PPE selections 
in recent years. As such, the assessment identified current opportunities at 
our North America operations related to the quality, security and accessibility 
of bathrooms and changing rooms for men and women as well as the 
accessibility of PPE for women. We have upgraded facilities to ensure each 
site has appropriate lactation rooms as required by U.S. law and are planning 
upgrades at 40 facilities across 10 global sites to support safety and inclusion 
and diversity priorities in 2024. Additionally, we have identified a wider selection 
of PPE to accommodate employees of different shapes, sizes and genders.
View more data in  
the ESG Performance 
Data Section
 63
DIVERSITY & LOCAL HIRING
FCX is committed to fostering a culture that is inclusive and representative of 
the communities where we operate. The majority of our employees are from the 
countries where we operate. One of our greatest opportunities to contribute to our 
host communities is through local employment and capacity building programs. 
Local employment directly contributes to the economic and social development of 
surrounding communities. Moreover, hiring locally incorporates local cultures and 
knowledge into our company, which can strengthen our programs and enhance 
global inclusion and diversity among our workforce through increased awareness, 
understanding and perspectives.
We are often the largest employer in our host communities, which are typically 
in remote areas, and hiring locally is a commitment we make to the communities 
surrounding our operations and to our host countries. It is from this context we seek 
to tailor our approach to inclusion and diversity across our global business. We 
aspire for the diversity of our workforce to reflect the diversity of the communities 
where we operate. In North America, approximately 50% of our employee base 
has self-identified as racially or ethnically diverse, including approximately 42% 
Hispanic representation and approximately 4% Native Americans/Alaskan Natives. 
At our Grasberg operations in Indonesia, 97% of our employee base is Indonesian, 
including approximately 44% who are Indigenous Papuan. 
We retain expatriate expertise for managerial and technical roles when we 
determine the required expertise it is not available in local communities. On 
average, expatriates represent 1% of people employed at our operations globally. 
Expatriates and inpatriates receive cultural training upon their arrival to a 
new location. For more information on this training, see Building Trust in the 
Communities section.
Looking ahead, we aim to continue promoting job opportunities across our 
Indigenous communities and other underrepresented minority groups within 
our organization and to encourage our contractors to seek candidates who are 
diverse and representative of their local communities. We believe having unique 
perspectives and local knowledge within our organization will help enhance 
communication, collaboration, job opportunities and talent sharing across our sites.
SPECIALTY TRAINING FOR PAPUANS
The Nemangkawi Mining Institute (NMI) in Papua, founded by PT-FI in 2003, 
seeks to build better collaborations with contracting companies in an effort to 
increase the number of skilled Papuans in PT-FI’s workforce at the Grasberg 
operations. PT-FI’s human resources team and NMI have been gathering 
information from PT-FI’s contractors on the skills needed to fill open and new 
positions. NMI offers technical and soft skills training and provides a platform 
for contracting companies to perform specialty training for Papuans interested 
in working at the Grasberg operations. For example, NMI has established a 
training partnership with a major catering company that will provide food 
service to contractors during the construction phase of the new gas-fired 
combined cycled facility. NMI has engaged local vocational high schools that 
specialize in hospitality and food service to offer on-campus training programs 
for upcoming positions.
Participants at the Nemangkawi 
Mining Institute in Papua, Indonesia.
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 64
GENDER DIVERSITY
Gender diversity continues to be an important focus for FCX. We are proactively 
working to attract and retain qualified women to work at FCX, and we have been 
working to promote an inclusive culture, to support well-being initiatives, and to 
conduct compensation reviews to identify and address possible pay gaps. In 2023, 
we held our first Women’s Leadership Forum in North America since the COVID-19 
pandemic, bringing together approximately 250 employees to network, learn and 
engage with leaders from our Board, senior management team and across our 
sites. We also sponsored and participated in the 2023 Women in Mining National 
Conference in Arizona. 
We continue to make progress on our gender representation goal of 15% women 
across our global employee base. At year-end 2023, women represented 14.8% of 
our employees, up from 14.2% in 2022. Two of our executive officers are women, 
including our President who will also assume the role of CEO in June 2024. Our 
board is comprised of 41.7% women and FCX was recognized as a 2023 Corporate 
Champion by the Women’s Forum of New York for its representation of women on 
its board.
FCX’s global full-time employee turnover rate for 2023 was 10%, with women 
leaving our workforce at a slightly higher rate than men. Women represented  
20% of new full-time employee hires during the year.
Representation of women in our employee base ranges widely across our global 
operations ― in North America, 21% of our employees are women, in Peru and 
Indonesia, 6% and 9%, respectively, of our employees are women. Part of our 
ongoing work moving forward is to better understand the specific regional 
contexts and drivers behind the lower numbers of women in certain regions 
and to find ways to support inclusivity through capacity building, resilience, 
skills, knowledge and career development opportunities ― as well as finding 
additional ways to support our people outside the workplace. For example, Cerro 
Verde and El Abra continued to recruit women for apprenticeship opportunities 
throughout the year. The objective of these apprenticeship programs is to generate 
employment opportunities for women, who lack work experience in mining, by 
teaching them specific skills that contribute to their professional development. 
While inclusion and diversity issues take time to identify and resolve, we are focused 
on addressing these challenges, increasing overall employee engagement and 
satisfaction, and finding ways to retain, develop and advance women employees.
COLLABORATION ON DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION PRIORITIES 
In 2023, our CEO pledged to support more inclusive workplaces by 
becoming a signatory of CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion, an initiative 
supported by 2,500 other CEOs across many industries. The goal of the 
collaboration is to help drive progress in diversity, equity and inclusion at 
scale in the workplace. During the year, FCX also partnered with Catalyst, 
an organization that aims to contribute to workplaces that support 
women. Our participation in Catalyst enables access to online events, 
workshops, courses and webinars for all our employees.
2023 WOMEN EMPLOYED BY FCX LOCATION (%)
United States
Europe/Other
Chile
Indonesia
Peru
14.8% FCX Global Average
25%
20%
15%
10%
5%
0
View more data in  
the ESG Performance 
Data Section
 65
FAIR & EQUAL REMUNERATION PRACTICES
We are committed to respecting the rights of our workforce, including paying fair 
and equal wages for equal work. Our approach to compensation and benefits is 
market-based, competitive and informed by annual benchmarking and analysis. 
This includes equal pay for equal work and compensation levels supporting the 
acquisition of the goods and services necessary for an average-size family to meet 
their basic needs in the geographic locations where we operate — often referred to 
as a living wage.
We are committed to providing equal pay for equal work regardless of gender, 
race, ethnicity or any other characteristic protected by applicable law. We 
periodically conduct internal compensation reviews to identify and address, as 
appropriate, possible pay gaps, which cannot be explained through performance, 
distribution of jobs, experience, time in role and other legitimate business-related 
factors. Since 2021, to further our commitment to provide equal pay for equal 
work and to support our global inclusion and diversity efforts, we have engaged 
a third-party compensation consultant, Mercer, to evaluate our gender pay equity 
practices across our global operations. Mercer’s evaluations include robust 
statistical analyses with detailed compensation reviews of our global employees.
In 2023, the gender pay equity gap ratio of each of base pay and total 
compensation (inclusive of base pay) was more than 0.995 (female employee) to 1 
(male employee).
In addition to gender pay equity analyses, Mercer has analyzed race and ethnicity 
pay equity across our U.S. operations. In the U.S., the 2023 race and ethnicity pay 
equity gap ratio of each of base pay and total compensation (inclusive of base 
pay) was more than 0.995 (non-white) to 1 (white employee).
Following the results of each pay analysis, we conducted internal reviews for the 
pay gaps identified, accounting for performance, distribution of jobs, experience, 
time in role and other legitimate business-related factors. In instances where it is 
justified, we implemented upward pay adjustments for individuals helping to ensure 
our employees are being treated and paid fairly. We plan to continue to improve the 
statistical model and further strengthen the assessment moving forward.
In 2023, we conducted our living wage assessment for both full-time and part-
time employees using living wage benchmark rates provided by BSR, a global 
sustainability nonprofit. Benchmark rates were provided for each of FCX’s 
locations globally, including operating sites, office locations, remediation and 
discontinued operations, and smaller processing locations. BSR’s living wage 
benchmark rates exceeded the minimum wages in all locations where we 
employ people. Again this year, compensation for all applicable employees was 
reviewed and meets BSR's living wage benchmarks for each respective location. 
In 2022, we completed a pilot living wage assessment of on-site contractors, 
with input and guidance from BSR, with a view to extending our living wage 
commitment to our on-site contractors in the future. We continue to work with 
BSR to evaluate next steps.
Moving forward, and in recognition of evolving pay landscapes, we plan 
to continue conducting evaluations of our pay equity practices and living 
wage assessments on a periodic basis and integrating key learnings into our 
compensation processes. We will seek to integrate the results into our annual 
compensation review process across our global operations.
SUPPORTING WOMEN IN CONSTRUCTION IN GRESIK
PT-FI is focused on supporting women at its Manyar smelter project in Gresik, 
Indonesia. In 2022, small focus groups identified opportunities to improve 
the working environment for women and action plans were developed. PT-FI 
has since added dedicated bathrooms and prayer rooms for women at the 
site; distributed dri-fit, flame-resistant hijabs so women could maintain their 
cultural norms and work safely; and provided reserved seating for women 
in commuter vehicles. PT-FI began holding regular meetings between 
management and women from the field to discuss working conditions. During 
2023, a celebration for women in construction was held to demonstrate our 
continued commitment to supporting women in the construction field. FCX 
and PT-FI senior management attended the celebration as well as the Vice 
Bupati of the Gresik Regency, showcasing our commitment to gender equity 
and promoting a culture of inclusiveness. More than 500 men and women 
from across the workforce attended the event, and women were given an 
opportunity to provide additional feedback on their working environment, 
which management continues to put into action.
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 66
COMMUNITIES & INDIGENOUS PEOPLES
WHY IT MATTERS
The connection between a mining company and its host community is critical. 
Creating and maintaining shared value for both the mine and the host community 
requires long-term, constructive relationships built on trust. In order to engender 
this trust and maintain social license to operate, mining companies must 
continuously engage with their host communities, including Indigenous Peoples 
who have historically occupied lands on or near mining operations, through 
transparent, open and collaborative dialogue over the life of the mine.
OUR APPROACH
FCX strives to work in partnership with our host communities and Indigenous 
Peoples to earn and maintain their trust and deliver shared value. We not only 
seek to avoid, minimize and mitigate adverse impacts from our operations, but we 
also aim to provide long-lasting benefits and increase resilience and well-being 
that can help communities thrive beyond the life of our mines.
Proactive, ongoing engagements and constructive dialogue are foundational to 
our approach. This is how we understand actual, potential and perceived impacts 
on our host communities, build trust, and mutually identify the most relevant 
social investments and development priorities to address our impacts and support 
enhanced resilience. We also actively work through engagement and capacity-
building activities to support host communities in maximizing the social and 
economic benefits of our operations.
While we tailor our programs to the dynamics of each operation and host 
community, our overarching objectives in partnership with local stakeholders 
remain consistent: (1) working to build enduring trust, (2) avoid, minimize or 
mitigate adverse impacts from our operations, (3) maximize the positive benefits, 
and (4) support our communities in building the resilience necessary to thrive and 
adapt during and beyond the life of our mines.
Policies & Programs
•	 Social Performance Policy — This policy outlines our commitment to 
engage and collaborate with local communities in an effort to avoid, 
minimize, mitigate and remedy adverse impacts while maximizing 
opportunities to deliver value from our presence. It also includes our 
commitment to work towards achieving the Free, Prior and Informed Consent 
(FPIC) of affected Indigenous communities.
•	 Social Performance Management System (SPMS) — This system 
operationalizes our policy commitments, and documents and institutionalizes 
the actions, behaviors and expectations for how we interact with our 
communities, including Indigenous Peoples, across our global business. The 
SPMS applies to active and discontinued operations and new projects alike 
with the goal of driving robust and consistent social performance and critical 
internal coordination, communications and accountability.
•	 Social Performance Plans — Each operating mine site and new project 
maintains a social performance plan that articulates site-specific activities 
that address the requirements of the SPMS within the local context, including 
risk and impact assessment and management, required ongoing consultation 
and voluntary engagement with affected stakeholders and development 
assistance for the communities near our operations.
•	 Human Rights Policy — States our commitments to the International Bill of 
Human Rights, the UNGPs and the VPs in addition to our zero tolerance for 
human rights abuses at our operations and throughout our value chain.
We work in partnership with our host 
communities and Indigenous Peoples 
to earn and maintain their trust and to 
contribute to long-term shared value 
and resilience.
 67
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
We regularly seek feedback and input on a range of topics from our host communities and other stakeholders affected by our 
operations or projects through our various engagement channels. The interests and concerns of our stakeholders can change 
over time; therefore, ongoing and proactive engagement to learn about changing needs and expectations is necessary. All 
of our active mining sites have long-standing local community engagement and/or development programs. We engage with 
stakeholders through Community Partnership Panels in the U.S., community engagement dialogue in South America and 
Manyar smelter project, and Community Liaison Officers in Indonesia. All three models focus on collaborative, proactive, 
transparent communications and meaningful dialogue, and all include local leaders and citizens who represent a broad range 
of stakeholder groups in each community. In addition, our operations frequently engage with stakeholders through situation- 
or topic-specific meetings, presentations, community affairs office hours, and other community outreach and engagement 
efforts. Through our collaborative engagements, we identify relevant community programs and projects, some of which are 
featured in this report. In 2023, we held approximately 4,000 formal community engagement meetings through our various 
models, building upon our long-standing relationships.
In 2023, we advanced new modules within our company-wide digital system to enhance the tracking and documentation of 
our informal and formal stakeholder engagements and reported community grievances. This system increases our visibility 
into potential operational risks by integrating our community stakeholder and grievance information with our risk register, 
where risks are cataloged according to priority and then managed.
We regularly seek feedback 
and input on a range of topics 
from our host communities 
and other stakeholders 
affected by our operations or 
projects through our various 
engagement channels.
Students from the Don Bosco Technical 
School near our El Abra operation, Chile.
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 68
COMMUNITY GRIEVANCE MECHANISM
To support constructive engagement and resolution of potential issues and 
adverse impacts, we maintain a site-level grievance mechanism where community 
members, including Indigenous Peoples, can register their complaints. Our 
community grievance mechanism serves as an early warning system by tracking 
trends and patterns in grievance types so they can be addressed in their earliest 
stages, ideally prior to escalation.
Our community grievance mechanism is available in local languages, with 
management protocols tailored to local culture, and serves as the system 
for documenting and tracking complaints or impacts as well as the type and 
timeliness of our responses. We socialize our grievance mechanism through a 
variety of means tailored to local customs and site-level engagement strategies, 
including verbally, by distributing flyers at community meetings and posting 
information on our Freeport in my Community website, among others.
Grievances are typically received (either anonymously or with attribution) by 
community engagement team members through in-person engagements, in writing 
via physical drop boxes, or via local telephone hotlines. All grievances are routed to 
the site community grievance officer, who is expected to contact the complainant 
within two business days to confirm receipt. The community grievance officer works 
with relevant departments to investigate, and where appropriate, provide remedy. 
We aim to respond to grievances within 30 days of receipt.
Our company-wide digital platform improves the community grievance 
escalation process by streamlining internal communication, supporting prompt 
communication of resolutions and providing easier identification of trends 
across our sites. Community grievance officers can record entries in their local 
language on their mobile device from the field, and where applicable, recorded 
grievances are synced with environmental incidents and stakeholder profiles 
within the broader stakeholder management platform. Our community grievance 
management standard operating procedure, which is in place across all of 
our sites, incorporates the effectiveness criteria outlined in the UNGPs and 
formalizes a process for quarterly corporate team reviews. These reviews help 
drive consistency in grievance handling as well as monitoring of trends and 
opportunities to share learnings across sites. 
In addition, during our HRIAs and Copper Mark assessments we receive feedback 
from both the external stakeholder interview process and the third-party consultant/
assessor on how the grievance platforms are performing. This feedback is then 
incorporated into action plans to improve the mechanisms and process. We 
continue to train our community engagement teams on the software platform and 
protocol to document and continuously improve the management process.
During 2023, our global operations recorded 178 community grievances, mostly 
regarding health and safety; environmental concerns; community investments; 
and odor, noise and vibration, among other topics. In recent years, we have 
received several grievance reports about roadway safety near our Safford 
operations because of the physical constraints of a local intersection. We 
expressed our support to the state legislature for Graham County’s request of 
state funding to improve this roadway and another that poses a safety risk to 
community members and our truck drivers. Both roadways are scheduled to be 
repaired in 2024.
Health & Safety	 24%
Environment	
20%
Community  
Investments	
10%
Odor, Noise,  
Vibration	
9% 
Other1	
9%
Local Sourcing	
7%
Employment	
6%
Property Damage	3%
Workforce Behavior	 2%
Community 
Engagement	
2% 
Land Access	
2%
Land Rights	
2%
Livelihoods	
2%
Cultural Heritage	
1%
Security	
1%
Resettlement	
0%
24+20+11+9+8+7+5+4+2+2+2+2+2+1+1+J
GRIEVANCE
TOPICS (%)
1.	 Other includes obstruction of view, light disturbance, blight, housing and other grievances not listed above.
Note: A "community grievance" is any self-reported issue / concern (perceived or actual) that an affected member 
or group of the communities within our area of direct or indirect operational impact and other stakeholders wants 
FCX or its business partners to address and resolve. Grievances reported here are managed via our community 
grievance mechanism, tracked within our incident management system and were received either anonymously or 
with attribution by community engagement team members through in-person engagements, in writing via physical 
drop boxes, or via local telephone hotlines. Grievances can relate to FCX's active mining operations, exploration 
projects, and reclaimed or remediated sites. 
View more data in 
the ESG Performance 
Data Section
 69
OUR APPROACH WITH INDIGENOUS PEOPLES
Indigenous Peoples often reside in areas that are home to rich biodiversity and to 
many of the most diverse peoples, languages and cultures. We acknowledge and 
respect the social, economic and cultural rights of the Indigenous Peoples who 
have historically occupied areas within or near our operations or have ancestral 
connections to these lands. We also understand that Indigenous Peoples often 
have special connections to land, water and other natural resources that can be 
tied to their physical, spiritual, cultural and economic well-being.
We are steadfast in our commitment to acknowledge, respect and engage 
collaboratively with Indigenous Peoples. Through our Building Trust approach, we 
strive to understand the values and cultural needs of each group of Indigenous 
Peoples; develop and maintain ongoing relationships; support effective, ongoing 
engagement; and create opportunities for social benefit, shared value creation 
and long-term resilience.
We also are committed to adhering to the ICMM Position Statement on Indigenous 
Peoples and Mining, and we are dedicated to pursuing FPIC for new projects and 
material expansions of existing projects where significant impacts are likely to occur.
Our stakeholder engagement program includes formal interactions with 
Indigenous Peoples in Central Papua, Indonesia; Native Americans in the U.S.; and 
the traditional communities of Alto El Loa in Chile. The adjacent table provides 
a listing of the Indigenous Peoples with whom we currently interact on either a 
routine or periodic basis. This list is neither exhaustive nor static. For example, 
there are other Native American Tribes in the Southwestern U.S. whom we interact 
with on a limited basis.
INDIGENOUS GROUPS/COMMUNITIES1 BY REGION/SITE
Southwestern U.S. (Arizona, Colorado, New Mexico)
Ak Chin Indian Community
Colorado River Indian Tribes
Fort McDowell Yavapai Nation
Fort Sill Apache Tribe²
Gila River Indian Community
Hopi Tribe
Hualapai Tribe
Mescalero Apache Tribe
Navajo Nation
Pascua Yaqui Tribe
Pueblo of Zuni
Salt River Pima-Maricopa  
   Indian Community
San Carlos Apache Tribe
Southern Ute Tribe
Tohono O’odham Nation
Tonto Apache Tribe
Ute Mountain Ute Tribe
White Mountain Apache Tribe
Yavapai-Apache Nation
Yavapai Prescott Indian Tribe 
El Abra (Chile)
Ascotán
Ayllu Ojos de San Pedro
Ayquina
Caspana
Chiu Chiu
Conchi Viejo
Coska
Cupo
Estación San Pedro
Lasana
Ollagüe
Taira
Toconce
Grasberg (Central Papua, Indonesia)
Amungme
Damal
Dani
Kamoro
Mee
Moni
Nduga
1. 	 Listed in alphabetical order.
2.	 While their tribal government is located in Oklahoma, some of our operations are located in part of the 
Fort Sill Apache Tribe’s aboriginal homelands.
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 70
Building Trust
We continue working to build trust with Indigenous Peoples potentially or actually impacted by our operations. We know 
that trust is earned, and thus, our overarching, systemized Building Trust approach seeks to facilitate trust through dialogue, 
ongoing relationships, transparency and creating shared value — as opposed to transactional engagements. Over time, 
deeper trust among FCX and Indigenous Peoples is expected to enable a clearer path to FPIC when new expansions or 
projects are undertaken that may have adverse impacts on Indigenous Peoples.
We initiated the Building Trust approach in North America during 2019 with a workshop facilitated by third-party experts in 
Indigenous Peoples relations. We wanted to better understand our relationships with Native American Tribes and identify areas 
and key goals for improvement. Our internal Native American Affairs team, made up of professionals with diverse tribal heritage 
or experience, provided critical guidance and leadership through this effort, and continue to do so on an ongoing basis.
This approach is driven by dedicated trust-building teams at our operations, placing the engagement strategy and execution 
in close proximity to our Indigenous neighbors. These cross-functional teams are responsible for understanding the values 
and cultural needs of each group of Indigenous Peoples, for developing and maintaining ongoing relationships, for identifying 
and supporting effective engagements on a regular basis and for creating opportunities for social benefit.
As Building Trust has matured across the organization, so too has its reach. More team members at FCX are interacting with 
our Indigenous neighbors, and our engagements have become more robust and have broadened beyond tribal leadership 
into Indigenous communities. This serves as evidence that sustained, intentional and culturally respectful engagement can 
build deeper trust and stronger relationships.
In 2023, FCX employees and contractors in roles that engage with or interact with Indigenous Peoples were provided training 
in cultural sensitivity and communicating with diverse cultures. The Native American Affairs team trained approximately 
250 individuals during the year across our North America operations to help our teams understand the heritage of Native 
Americans and foster respect. PT-FI conducts similar training at the Grasberg operations and the Manyar smelter project 
to promote cultural awareness with the aim of improving cross-cultural communication skills and understanding. For 
example, PT-FI’s Papuan Affairs Department, human resources and the Nemangkawi Mining Institute are training non-
Papuan supervisors of underground operations about Papuan culture to instill an appreciation and understanding of cultural 
differences. Participants learned about the traditional leadership system that influences Papuan communication styles and 
practiced key greetings and common expressions of the seven Papuan tribal languages.
 71
LAND USE, RESETTLEMENT AND CUSTOMARY RIGHTS
In all cases, we seek to avoid involuntary displacement of people, whether 
physical or economic, and when unavoidable, we are committed to conducting 
community resettlement activities in alignment with international best practice. 
This requires careful planning and implementation, including information 
disclosure, consultation, and informed participation of affected people to minimize 
impacts through appropriate mitigation measures. This commitment is reflected in 
our Social Performance Policy and Human Rights Policy available on our website. 
We have not had any involuntary resettlement activities since 2016 when FCX sold 
its interest in the Tenke Fungurume mine in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
When resettlement is unavoidable, we develop a resettlement action plan, 
which can help to mitigate the adverse impacts of physical displacement, and 
a livelihood restoration plan, when applicable. We do this in line with host 
country laws and regulations, IFC Performance Standard 5: Land Acquisition & 
Involuntary Resettlement in addition to the UN Guiding Principles on Business 
and Human Rights.
Indigenous Peoples in Chile and Native Americans in the U.S. either currently or 
have historically occupied lands in proximity to our operations or have ancestral 
connections to these lands. Likewise, the Grasberg operating area in Indonesia 
is located where Indigenous Peoples of Central Papua hold customary land 
rights. FCX acknowledges and respects the social, economic and cultural rights 
of the Indigenous Peoples who have historically occupied areas on or near our 
operations or have ancestral connections to these lands. 
DreamCatcher graduates, Arizona.
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 72
CULTURAL HERITAGE
Cultural heritage can be defined as Indigenous Peoples’ or any other population’s 
unique assets and resources, including, but not limited to tangible assets such as 
places, buildings and artifacts, or intangible assets such as practices, customs, 
religious/spiritual sites and shrines. We recognize that respecting and supporting 
the cultural heritage of our host communities, including our Indigenous neighbors, 
is critical to our ongoing social license to operate. While cultural resources linked 
to the heritage and history of an area are associated with a wide variety of people 
and places, within the context of mining we recognize it is critically important for 
Indigenous Peoples.
We acknowledge that the nature and location of our mining and processing 
activities means we have the potential to impact cultural heritage and resources. 
We seek to avoid, minimize or mitigate negative impacts to cultural heritage 
through studies or surveys, planning and ongoing engagement with Indigenous 
Peoples and other impacted communities, including providing opportunities 
for stakeholders to identify culturally or traditionally significant resources and 
participate in decisions regarding their protection and management.
We are guided by a fundamental commitment to respect and appreciate the 
cultural heritage of people in the communities where we operate. This promise is 
connected to our overarching commitments — such as Human Rights — and it 
manifests in the choices we make when our operations can adversely impact the 
culture of our communities and neighbors.
Americas
We host Indigenous Peoples at our mines in North America and South America 
and aim to include them in the management of their cultural resources identified 
within the footprint of our operations. We voluntarily invite archaeologists to 
assess any artifacts found at our sites. Neighboring Indigenous Peoples are 
informed of the findings, and we seek to provide time for them to review the 
archaeologists’ recommendations and provide us with feedback. In some cases, 
we may redesign our activities to protect and preserve important heritage sites.
Cerro Verde maintains a Cultural Heritage Management Plan for the purpose 
of strengthening the management of cultural heritage by identifying, defining 
and predicting possible impacts on cultural heritage and determining mitigation 
measures within the regulatory compliance framework and other requirements. 
The plan explains how to handle unexpected archaeological evidence if identified 
during work or a project. 
Cerro Verde protects more than 200 archaeological sites within its mining area, 
and in 2016, the site funded and constructed the Tambo Cultural Repository 
(museum) in the Yarabamba District to help preserve artifacts. Cerro Verde has 
published a book about the archaeological interventions carried out between 2011 
and 2017 for the Cerro Verde expansion project and plans to publish a second 
book at the end of 2024 covering archaeological findings since then. Cerro Verde’s 
publications can be found on their website.
Since 2016, our New Mexico operations and the Mescalero Apache School have 
hosted an annual agave harvest on land adjacent to the Chino operations. The 
harvest event provides an opportunity for students and their families to connect to 
their aboriginal lands and experience the Apache's traditional, pre-reservation diet 
and cultural traditions of their ancestors. In 2023, 35 Apache students travelled 
from Mescalero, New Mexico, to harvest approximately 40 mescal plants. The 
event has evolved into a partnership with the Gila National Forest and Western 
New Mexico University, which invites the students to explore the university during 
their trip.
Similarly, vegetation harvests at our Sierrita operation with the Tohono O’odham 
Nation’s San Xavier District began in 2018 as a result of direct dialogue with 
elected leaders.  Since that time, there have been 13 harvests, including 2 in 2023. 
The harvests include culturally significant species such as agave, mesquite wood, 
ocotillo, wild tobacco, various cacti and wildflowers, some of which are consumed 
and other which are transplanted at San Xavier Co-op Farm nursery.
At our El Abra operations, we hold in-person meetings with neighboring 
Indigenous groups to provide them with transparent information about impacts 
associated with our current and potential future operational activities. We invite 
stakeholders to tour our operations and we often engage independent advisors. 
Our community engagement at El Abra has been focused on building trust 
through meaningful engagement for years, and we have collaboration agreements 
with many of our neighboring Indigenous communities that outline our agreed 
upon approach and activities for engagement, social development, and cultural 
heritage preservation and management.
 73
Indonesia
At our Grasberg operations, PT-FI has conducted extensive participatory cultural 
heritage mapping with the Indigenous Kamoro communities adjacent to PT-
FI's lowlands operations. More than 100 Indigenous women, men and youth 
participated in this exercise. Culturally significant locations, such as ancestral 
sites and historical settlements, were integrated into several PT-FI management 
systems, with the goal of embedding cultural heritage awareness and resources 
into PT-FI's governance structure and decision making. The Amungme cultural 
heritage mapping started with a desktop study in 2023 and will be followed by a 
participatory mapping activity in 2024.
PT-FI works with Kamoro communities to maintain traditional transport routes 
through the Ajkwa Estuary. As tailings sediment deposits in the estuary, it creates 
new land along the island’s coastline causing some traditional channels to 
become unnavigable. PT-FI engages with local Kamoro communities, the Mimika 
Regency government and other stakeholders to manage impacts on traditional 
transport routes, to provide transportation alternatives and to initiate coastal 
development programs to reduce the need for travel to Timika. PT-FI is actively 
dredging sediment out of the channel and plans to maintain a channel in the 
inner mangrove forest to connect the estuary route. PT-FI has also facilitated the 
development of Kamoro-led small business enterprises involved in construction 
and reclamation activities in the tailings deposition area and the Ajkwa estuary. 
Throughout 2022 and 2023, two Kamoro villages adjacent to PT-FI’s operations 
conducted a rite-of-passage ritual called Karapao in which boys are initiated 
into manhood. The ritual includes an eight-month-long process of reinforcing the 
connection of the boys to land, rivers, kinship and ancestors. PT-FI supported 
the Kamoro villagers throughout the preparation and implementation of the ritual 
by preparing the ritual pad, and providing transport of goods, extended family 
members and guests.
PT-FI partners with the Maramowe Weaiku Kamorowe Foundation to help preserve 
and promote the Kamoro carving culture by buying Kamoro carvings, establishing 
exhibitions across Indonesia, and participating in cultural events. The Maramowe 
Weaiku Kamorowe Foundation was awarded the Indonesian Cultural Award in 2021 
from Indonesia's Ministry of Education and Culture in recognition of its efforts to 
preserve and promote the culture of the Kamoro Indigenous Group. 
Through 2023, PT-FI has supported more than 550 Kamoro carvers from 33 villages. 
PT-FI supported the Maramowe Weaiku Kamorowe Foundation during 2023 by 
preparing and transporting two 8-meter-high Kamoro totems carved by the Mioko 
Village artists from Central Papua to promote Kamoro carving culture. The Kamoro 
totems were shipped from the Amamapare Port to the Waterfront Cultural Park in 
Pangururan (Lake Toba, North Sumatra), where they were presented by the Kamoro 
people to the Batak people of Lake Toba as a sign of friendship.
Members of the Kamoro Indigenous community 
near PT-FI’s Grasberg operation in Papua, Indonesia.
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 74
COMMUNITY RESILIENCE
One of our primary goals is to work with local communities and Indigenous 
Peoples in the areas where we operate to contribute to well-being and build 
resilience over time to enable communities to thrive during the life of our mines 
and beyond. Partnering with communities to increase resilience means supporting 
their ability to better anticipate, navigate and successfully adapt to unforeseeable 
or disruptive events or conditions, such as impacts from climate change, changes 
in employment types and opportunities, or eventual post-mining transitions. This 
includes creating opportunities, activities and skills that increase community-level 
capacity to maximize the economic opportunities created by mining.
We believe we can best support community and Indigenous Peoples’ resilience 
by focusing our efforts in three main areas: (1) education and skill-building, 
(2) economic opportunity, and (3) community-level leadership and 
capacity building. Within each of these three areas is a fundamental 
commitment to enable the skills of individuals and communities necessary to 
achieve the overarching goal of resilience.
COMMUNITY RESILIENCE FOCUS AREAS
EDUCATION & 
SKILL-BUILDING
COMMUNITY-LEVEL 
LEADERSHIP &  
CAPACITY BUILDING
ECONOMIC 
OPPORTUNITY
1
2
3
Community members 
near our El Abra 
operation, Chile.
 75
Americas
Through our engagement and dialogue with Native American tribal 
representatives, we understand that a certificate or degree is a high priority 
for tribal members. In partnership with Education Forward Arizona, our Native 
American Scholarship and Navajo Code Talkers Scholarship (honoring those who 
created an unbreakable code used in World War II based on Navajo language) 
programs provide scholarships to attend trade schools, two-year community 
and tribal colleges, and four-year universities. These scholarships also include 
a personal success advisor for each student, helping them to navigate and 
overcome the challenges of college life and academics. Together, the scholarships 
represent an initial investment of $9 million through 2026 to support 300 Native 
American students across 14 eligible tribes.
In partnership with Thunderbird School of Global Management at Arizona 
State University, we offer a small business development training program 
called DreamCatcher. The program aims to empower Native American women 
entrepreneurs across 14 tribes by providing intensive MBA-level business classes 
taught by Thunderbird faculty, in addition to professional development and 
networking and mentoring. During 2023, 90 women participated in the program. 
All program costs, including classroom instruction, lodging and meals, are free of 
charge to participants.
During 2023, our Cerro Verde operations invested in educational projects related 
to science, technology, engineering, arts and mathematics (STEAM) education, 
communication and psychology using innovative methods to strengthen teaching 
and learning in nearby communities. Cerro Verde also improved infrastructure and 
equipment for educational institutions through the donation of school furniture, 
technology and laboratories, and classrooms. We estimate more than 14,000 
people from the areas of direct and indirect influence of Cerro Verde benefitted 
from STEAM educational support.
At El Abra, we supported the development of a training program for traditional 
educators at the Education and Training Center of the Universidad Católica del 
Norte and with the support of the Ministry of Education. The training program 
for traditional educators aims to professionalize and validate the knowledge of 
Indigenous People by transmitting their language, traditions and customs of their 
native peoples, to provide them with pedagogical tools and also the validation and 
recognition of learning to work in a classroom. In 2023, 25 traditional educators 
from the Indigenous Development Areas of Alto El Loa and Atacama La Grande 
were certified as higher-level technicians in general education.
Indonesia
Since 1996, PT-FI through its partnering organizations and other mechanisms has 
awarded scholarships to students ranging from primary school to the doctoral 
degree level. PT-FI and the Amungme and Kamoro Community Empowerment 
Foundation (Yayasan Pemberdayaan Masyarakat Amungme dan Kamoro, or 
YPMAK) provide education programs to create opportunities for Indigenous 
children, working alongside Mimika Regency's Education Office, educational 
organizations, education consultants and other partners. In 2023, through YPMAK, 
more than 1,400 scholarships were being funded for students in secondary and 
tertiary level education and more than 1,700 students were being supported in the 
boarding school program. Through its Tomawin program in 2023, PT-FI provided 
another 116 scholarships to elementary, high school and tertiary level students, 
and new in 2023, PT-FI began funding 70 annual scholarships to Papuan students 
who study at certain Indonesian universities. PT-FI has also committed to fund 
the construction of a science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) building 
on the University of Cenderawasih campus in Papua Induk province. Through 
YPMAK, we also assist teachers assigned to remote areas by providing logistics and 
transportation support. In 2023, 85 teachers teaching in 7 districts and 28 villages 
were supported.
Education & Skill-Building 
By increasing the quality, availability and access to education and skills training for local communities and Indigenous 
Peoples, we aim to improve self-reliance. This includes providing opportunities for people to gain and adapt skills that 
allow them to secure employment in the mining industry, its value chain and beyond.
1
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 76
Americas
The Arizona Economic Resource Center, an entity we support and helped launch 
in 2021, has helped more than 940 organizations receive grants totaling $46 million 
from federal, state and private grant programs. The resource center provides support 
to rural Arizona communities, including Indigenous communities, by providing grant 
writing assistance, economic impact analysis, budget development and project 
management services that enable increased access to financial resources to meet 
the needs and build the resilience of small communities.
We invest in the stability of our communities by supporting substance abuse 
recovery centers in Arizona. In 2019, we invested in the construction and launch 
of a men’s recovery home to serve Graham and Greenlee Counties. Because 
of the home’s success and to continue addressing substance abuse concerns 
identified through the recent Arizona operations' HRIA, we are partnering on the 
construction of a second home for women in substance abuse recovery, which 
should be completed in 2024. The home will provide a sober living environment as 
well as educational and vocational programming to women, with the objective of 
helping residents gain employment and successfully reenter society.
At Cerro Verde, we support the Center for Entrepreneurship and Business 
Development (EMPRENDE) to provide no-cost business management consulting 
to entrepreneurs in the site’s direct influence area. EMPRENDE has provided more 
than 60,000 hours of consulting services to more than 4,185 entrepreneurs. Eighty-
eight percent of participants have gone on to establish formal businesses, and 
82% of EMPRENDE participants are women entrepreneurs.
We support entrepreneurs in our host community near our El Abra operation 
through the Fund Empréndete (small business development fund). The fund 
provides financing of businesses or business ideas of people in the Antofagasta 
Region who have completed the DreamBuilder program, our online small 
business training program focused on women, but open to all. In 2023, the fund 
was enhanced to incorporate financial training for participants, including the 
development of an investment plan. During 2023, 26 projects benefited, delivering 
a total investment of approximately $125,000.
Indonesia
PT-FI works closely with the Mimika Regency government to support the 
development of healthcare infrastructure. PT-FI established the Mitra Masyarakat 
Hospital in 1999 and the Waa Banti Hospital in 2005. While primarily serving 
the local community based in the lowlands (for logistical reasons), the Mitra 
Masyarakat Hospital also provides services to the highland community and 
those living outside the Mimika Regency. The hospital is funded by PT-FI, owned 
by YPMAK and managed by the Caritas Timika Papua Foundation, provides 
complete health services, including preventive, curative and rehabilitative care in 
four specialty areas: surgery, internal medicine, obstetrics and pediatrics, along 
with opportunities for regular visits from an ophthalmologist. More than 100,000 
patients visited the Mitra Masyarakat Hospital and Mitra Masyarakat Clinic in 2023.
The original Waa Banti Hospital ceased operations in 2017; however, the Mimika 
Local Health Authority completed construction of a new hospital in 2023. 
PT-FI and YPMAK supported the Mimika Local Health Authority during the 
construction period by providing and clearing the land on which the hospital 
was built, supplying construction equipment to the Mimika Regency government, 
transporting materials and construction workers, and providing electricity and 
clean water. Hospital operations recommenced in 2023 with services including 
internal medicine, pharmaceutical care, obstetric care, pediatric care, pulmonary 
medicine, surgical care and emergency care. Between September and December 
2023, the Waa Banti Hospital provided services to more than 3,000 patients.
Economic Opportunity
By strengthening various local community support services and resources that are critical to enabling economic 
opportunity, we aim to contribute to overall community resilience and well-being. Our work includes supporting the 
development and growth of small businesses, promoting local sourcing opportunities, enhancing basic infrastructure 
such as affordable housing, aiding local food security, and supporting widespread access to health and wellness services.
2
 77
Americas
FCX initiated the development of resilience action plans for counties surrounding 
our operations in North America. We partner with an economic development 
consulting firm who facilitates the projects by working with a variety of 
community stakeholders. This community-led process aims to mirror FCX’s risk 
register process, which helps stakeholders identify, prioritize, understand and 
pre-emptively mitigate potential risks to resilience specific to their local context. 
The plans identify concrete strategies that the communities can deploy to combat 
possible scenarios that address challenges and opportunities, particularly around 
mine closures and climate change. They also outline state and local resources 
available for communities to apply to receive funding for projects in support of 
the plans. Over the last two years, we committed to fund two projects in support 
of the Resilience Action Plan for Lake County, Colorado, where our Climax mining 
operations are located. Our funding will support programs that work with the 
Latinx population to increase their civic engagement.
We helped improve water availability for the district of La Joya near our Cerro 
Verde operations. The project included the installation of a cleaning system, 
new hydraulic cylinders and infrastructure lighting in the Socosani dam as well 
as improving the tunnel of the main canal used for irrigation which increased 
water access. As the climate changes, access to water has become increasingly 
challenging for this community and this effort supported both adaptation of 
and economic benefit for the district. These multi-year investments benefit the 
approximate 40,000 people in the district of La Joya and 2,500 farmers in the area.
Indonesia
PT-FI continues to collaborate with the Papuan University Cendrawasih to provide 
capacity building to the Amungme and Kamoro Indigenous Councils. Training was 
conducted during 2023 in a participatory manner using a PT-FI social investment 
program case study. The long-term goal is to enable the Indigenous Councils to 
efficiently engage in monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness of PT-FI’s social 
investment and impact mitigation programs. 
PT-FI has worked with the community to provide training and support to local 
farmer groups, cooperatives and entrepreneurs to establish a sustainable and 
transparent supply and value chain and transparent trade practices for specialty 
coffees, including sustainable growing, processing quality control and marketing 
to help them enter national and international specialty coffee markets. The 
Nemangkawi Mining Institute has a project underway to establish Amungme Gold 
coffee kiosks at partner locations around the world, including at the Rimba Papua 
Hotel and Freeport Lounge of the airport in Timika and PT-FI’s corporate office in 
Jakarta as well as FCX’s corporate office in Phoenix, Arizona. Programs for food 
security are also provided, such as support for aqua culture (freshwater fish in the 
highlands), animal husbandry, chicken and pig farming, and horticulture products 
for daily needs.
Our micro-, small- and medium-enterprises development initiatives help 
Indigenous entrepreneurs to access traditional and nontraditional loans, receive 
managerial training and other business support. In 2023, PT-FI provided nearly 
$180,000 to support 238 local entrepreneurs, helping micro-, small- and medium-
business owners create new or expand existing businesses and open new 
employment opportunities hiring more than 1,200 employees (34% of which are 
local Papuan) in the Mimika Regency.
Community-Level Leadership and Capacity Building
By investing in capacity building and leadership development, we aim to better enable community-level institutions 
and their leaders, including local governments and nonprofits, to develop, improve or retain knowledge and skills that 
can help them become more effective, stable and empowered in stewarding the community’s well-being and resilience 
over time. We view capacity building as a continuous and critical effort to empower citizens to chart their own paths to 
resilience and ensure their communities can thrive beyond the life of our mines.
3
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 78
WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT & DEVELOPMENT
Women’s empowerment is a theme across our community engagement and 
investment work. We believe inclusive and diverse communities that enable full 
and equal participation of women are stronger, more stable and resilient over the 
long term. In addition to contributing to the UN SDGs, our empowerment initiatives 
seek to promote women’s rights through policy advocacy, leadership in the public 
and private sectors, small business training, supply chain access programs and 
educational attainment.
The largest of our economic empowerment programs, DreamBuilder — a free, online 
entrepreneurship training program for women — has reached enrollment of more 
than 175,000 women across the world (primarily in the U.S., Chile and Peru where 
we operate). In Peru alone, more than 40,000 women were enrolled as of year-end 
2023. Now in its twelfth year, the program seeks to equip women with the skills and 
confidence needed to become financially independent business owners. In 2023, 
graduates of the program applied their learnings to small businesses in areas such 
as professional services, adult literacy, food service and hospitality, jewelry and 
clothing, and sustainable children’s games, among others.
FCX partners with WEConnect International and Vital Voices to support women's 
empowerment and leadership. Through membership and partnership with 
WEConnect International, FCX has helped enable women business owners 
to compete for a greater share of private sector sourcing contracts, including 
identifying opportunities for women to participate in our own supply chain. FCX 
is also the sole investor in VVEngage, a partnership with Vital Voices to advance 
women’s public leadership and the UN SDGs through training and mentoring 
from experts from the Vital Voices Global Network, including the Council of 
Women World Leaders and the Harvard Kennedy School of Government. The 
customized fellowship curriculum includes nine months of rigorous workshops 
on topics such as leadership, strategic communications, strategy and governance, 
and supports the fellows to acquire specific skills to achieve their goals related to 
the advancement of the SDGs in their communities. Since its launch, 140 female 
fellows from 68 countries around the world have benefitted from VVEngage.
DreamBuilder participant near 
our El Abra operation, Chile.
 79
EVALUATING OUR IMPACT
We aim to help build resilience and well-being in the host communities where we 
operate, in part by contributing time and financial resources. In order to maximize 
the value of these resources, we have initiated work to quantify the impact of our 
social investments, which will help inform our ongoing social investment strategy 
and inform dialogue with stakeholders about value created. We are also working 
on processes to evaluate the efficacy and impact of our other social performance 
programs, including our stakeholder engagement approaches, social performance 
management system, and the general social and economic benefit we believe our 
operations contribute to our host communities.
In North America, we partner with a third-party organization, True Impact, 
to understand the programmatic reach (number of people who benefitted/
participated) and impact (what happened as a result of participation) of our 
strategic community investments. Through direct engagement and their online 
evaluation platform, True Impact provides training and technical assistance to our 
nonprofit partners to gather and analyze data associated with the impact of their 
programs. True Impact calculates project impacts/outcomes using standardized 
models and indicators. The platform uses a “claim” calculation to determine the 
portion of impacts attributed to our investment. 
Applying True Impact’s methodology, in 2023, a total of 67,003 people were 
reached by programs supported in North America and approximately 40,594 of 
them experienced positive social impacts across standardized priority indicators 
tracked by True Impact. Due to a variety of factors (e.g., cost/benefit, partner 
capacity), in 2023, we evaluated the impacts associated with 47 programs or 
approximately $5 million of funding out of total funding in North America. As our 
measurement coverage increases, comprehensiveness of results will also increase. 
 
While impact measurement is a challenging and emerging field, it is work we 
believe can help demonstrate the impact of our investments and the benefits 
yielded over time. We are evaluating ways to replicate this approach for more 
partners in the U.S. and our operations/partners outside of North America.
Important Definitions and Notes
Reach (also referred to as program outputs) refers to the number of people who 
benefitted from or participated in a given program or project. 
Impacts (also referred to as outcomes or successes) refers to an event, action, 
occurrence, or asset that resulted from participating in a given program or project 
that improved people’s lives. Impacts often take more than one year to achieve 
and report, therefore programs or projects may not report final impact until a year 
or more following the initial investment.
Difference between Reach and Impact — People reached are those who 
participate with a program through an initial engagement such as attending a 
workshop or participating in a course. Impact is the stage in which a person's life 
is meaningfully improved as a result of participating such as attaining a degree 
or credential, gaining a job, improving income, reducing a health risk, improving 
their housing, etc. In almost all cases, the impacts of a program are less than the 
reach because social impact has a more stringent threshold of success and is 
dependent upon the individual beneficiary to take steps to realize the impact on 
their lives. There is still value or benefit derived from participation; however, not all 
who participated will reach the threshold of social impact.
SOCIAL IMPACT ASSOCIATED WITH $5 MILLION OF FCX’S STRATEGIC COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS IN NORTH AMERICA (2023)
16,810
1,568
7,747
9,464
People improved their academic 
performance, graduated or 
attained a degree/credential
People improved their safety, 
health and wellbeing
People benefitted from increased 
access to community resources
People gained financial 
strength through improved 
employment, professional skills 
and increased income 
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 80
ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTIONS
WHY IT MATTERS
Mining operations can contribute to national, regional and local development 
through employment opportunities, voluntary investments in communities and 
through taxes, royalties and other financial obligations in jurisdictions where the 
operations are located. Transparent disclosure of revenues and payments to host 
governments and investments in communities can promote better governance 
and accountability regarding the distribution of natural resource industry 
revenues.
OUR APPROACH
As an important part of our commitment to responsible production, FCX aims to 
be a good corporate citizen in the host communities and countries in which we 
operate. We contribute to the wealth and prosperity of these countries, regions and 
communities by generating economic value that includes tax and royalty payments, 
which support essential government functions such as education and infrastructure, 
local hiring and procurement that supports many types of jobs in a community or 
region, and other direct and indirect community investments. However, it is also 
important to recognize that mining is an inherently cyclical business with production 
levels and profits fluctuating over the life of the mine, which can impact our 
economic and social investments and other sustainability programs.
ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTIONS & CASH PAYMENTS TO GOVERNMENTS
In 2023, FCX’s direct economic contributions totaled $18.9 billion, which  
includes $11.2 billion in payments to suppliers; $2.8 billion in employee wages 
and benefits; $2.2 billion in payments to providers of capital; $2.6 billion in 
payments to governments (consisting of income taxes (net of refunds), royalties 
and net severance taxes, export duties, net profit taxes and withholding taxes 
on foreign dividends); and $187 million in voluntary community investments. We 
also made investments of $4.8 billion in capital expenditures.
Please refer to the key economic contributions and cash payments to 
governments tables in the ESG Performance Data section of this report for 
more detailed financial information. In reference to the GRI Standards, financial 
information has been reported for all tax jurisdictions where FCX’s entities reside 
for tax purposes.
FCX’s global tax strategy seeks to balance the economic considerations of 
our host governments and stakeholders with our business objectives. In 
jurisdictions where we conduct business, we advocate for the development and 
implementation of fair and predictable tax laws on issues that are important to our 
business and the industry. The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) is 
a global standard to promote transparent and accountable management of natural 
resources. We have endorsed and committed to support the EITI since 2008. 
We maintain significant mining operations in Indonesia and Peru, both of which 
have implemented EITI, and we actively support and participate in associated 
in-country processes as part of EITI. We also aim to support governments’ 
ambitions to achieve contract transparency. In addition to our country-level EITI 
commitments and regulatory reporting obligations, our practice is to provide 
transparency by voluntarily reporting cash payments to governments in all 
significant jurisdictions where we conduct business. Our support includes direct 
financial contributions as well as contributions through ICMM.
Management of our tax strategy is conducted within the corporate finance 
group under the direction of our Chief Financial Officer. Tax risks are identified 
and monitored by a global team of tax professionals, who assist in executing 
our tax affairs in line with our strategy, PBC and internal control policies. We are 
committed to fully cooperating with all tax authorities and providing access to 
accounting and governance documentation as requested.
One of the ways we contribute to 
the wealth and prosperity of the 
host countries and communities 
where we operate is by generating 
economic value.
View more data in 
the ESG Performance 
Data Section
 81
COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS
We believe communities best understand their own needs and our ongoing 
engagements are designed to facilitate dialogue related to their needs and 
objectives as well as cultivate opportunities for partnership. We fund our social 
investment programs directly through each operation and their respective 
foundation or community trust fund. We encourage community-led processes that 
seek to empower stakeholders to help direct our investments to relevant programs 
that meet mutually defined goals and objectives. Annually, we seek to invest 1% 
of our revenue (based on a prior three-year average). In 2023, we invested $187 
million, which was below our target of $203 million. While this was less than our 
target investment, we were able to increase community investments by $10 million 
in 2023 compared to 2022, representing our ongoing commitment to investing in 
community resilience and wellbeing and increasing this investment when revenue 
permits. Since community investment targets were first established in 2009, we 
have invested $2.5 billion dollars in community development initiatives.
2023 TOTAL
COMMUNITY
INVESTMENT 
$187
MILLION
$2.5 
BILLION
CUMULATIVE  
INVESTMENT  
SINCE 2009
CONTRIBUTING TO THE UNITED NATIONS  
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
The SDGs were adopted by the United Nations in 2015 and seek to 
make the world more peaceful and prosperous for both people and 
the planet. By supplying responsibly produced copper, we are proud 
to be a positive contributor to the world well beyond our operational 
boundaries. Being a responsible producer includes contributing 
to relevant SDGs within our host communities and countries and 
across our value chains, while simultaneously seeking to mitigate any 
potential impediments to their realization.
To some degree, FCX works toward all 17 SDGs through aspects of 
our day-to-day work at our various global sites, partnership initiatives 
and social investments. SDG 12 — Responsible Consumption and 
Production — is central to our strategy of being foremost in the global 
copper industry.
While we have been mapping our programs to all of the SDGs for 
many years, our goal is to advance this work by more deliberately 
identifying and focusing on those goals where we believe we can 
make the most meaningful contribution. We have identified (indicated 
above) the SDGs that we believe our global programs contribute to the 
most and have noted the relevant goals throughout this report.
View more data in 
the ESG Performance 
Data Section
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 82
Biodiveristy research near PT-FIs 
Grasberg operation in Papua, Indonesia. 
 83
FCX, and the mining industry in general, is dependent upon nature and its 
naturally occurring resources. FCX also recognizes that mining impacts the natural 
environment. This perspective guides our environmental stewardship efforts, 
including our focus on enhancing climate resiliency, responsible water use and 
protecting biodiversity, especially in ecologically sensitive areas where we operate.
We are committed to conducting our work in a manner that minimizes adverse 
impacts on the environment and supports protection of the natural environment 
and ecosystems through responsible environmental stewardship, strong 
management systems and continuous improvement. 
Effective environmental protection and stewardship are essential to the long-
term viability of our business, including maintaining the necessary support 
from our host communities and governments. Our Environmental Policy serves 
as the foundation for our protection of the natural environment in the regions 
where we live and work. In addition to complying with laws and regulations and 
implementing management strategies based on verifiable data and sound science, 
we plan and conduct our operations in a manner that seeks to minimize adverse 
environmental effects, with a particular focus on climate, water, biodiversity, 
tailings and non-mineral waste management. We review and plan for the 
environmental impacts of our activities throughout the entire mining life cycle, 
from early-stage studies through mine closure.
In 2023, we implemented the Tailings Standard at our Morenci and Henderson 
mines, we achieved the Safely Closed designation at multiple discontinued 
operations and we continue our efforts to implement the standards across our 
remaining tailings storage facilities (TSFs) in the Americas. During the year, we 
advanced our climate strategy with the announcement of significant investments 
to further advance our GHG reduction goals. For the first time, we also published 
biodiversity management plans for Cerro Verde, El Abra, Morenci and PT-FI 
(Grasberg) which are available on our website. The following pages outline our 
efforts to protect the environment and the steps we are taking to minimize our 
environmental footprint.
Thriving 
Environments
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 84
CLIMATE 
WHY IT MATTERS 
Climate change poses considerable near- and long-term challenges for society. 
Mining is energy intensive and generates significant GHG emissions that 
contribute to climate change. However, copper plays an essential role in global 
decarbonization. It is a central component in the technologies that will be 
deployed in a highly electrified and low-carbon economy, including solar and 
wind energy and electric vehicles. These technologies are critical to support the 
global energy transition needed to meet the goals of the Paris Agreement and 
accelerate toward a 2050 net zero economy. 
OUR APPROACH 
As one of the world’s largest copper producers, we understand our critical role 
in the energy transition. We are dedicated to supplying the global economy 
with responsibly produced copper which includes operating in a manner that 
manages and mitigates our GHG emissions and other climate-related risks 
and impacts. Please refer to our Climate Report for a more comprehensive 
discussion of our climate-related strategy, governance, risk management, 
and metrics and targets. Our climate strategy is comprised of three pillars: 
Reduction, Resilience and Contribution.
CLIMATE STRATEGY
1. REDUCTION 
We strive to reduce, manage and mitigate our GHG emissions where 
possible. We have four 2030 GHG emissions reduction targets, covering 
nearly 100% of our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions, which help us to 
manage relevant, climate-related risks and support the decarbonization 
of our business globally. Our decarbonization initiatives can be described 
by four primary levers: decarbonizing electricity supply, electrification 
of equipment, energy & asset efficiency, and process innovation. We 
believe that these four levers are the foundation that will help us to further 
define our decarbonization roadmap to achieve our 2030 GHG emissions 
reduction targets and beyond.
2. RESILIENCE 
We strive to enhance our resilience to climate change risks (both physical 
and transitional risks) for our current and future operations, our host 
communities and our stakeholders. This includes working to analyze 
and prepare for extreme weather events, water stress and other potential 
climate change impacts while also supporting our host communities and 
responding to anticipated market and regulatory demands. 
3. CONTRIBUTION 
We strive to be a positive contributor beyond our operational boundaries 
by responsibly producing the copper that will support the technologies 
needed to enable the energy transition. This includes collaborating with 
partners in our value chain and industry associations to identify climate-
related solutions that will support the transition to a low-carbon economy 
and ultimately meet the goals of the Paris Agreement. 
As one of the world’s largest copper 
producers, we understand our critical 
role in the energy transition.
Biodiveristy research near 
PT-FIs Grasberg operation in 
Papua, Indonesia. 
 85
FCX DECARBONIZATION ROADMAP
Multiple GHG emissions reduction initiatives are either already in process or are under evaluation across our global business. Collectively, we believe these initiatives are 
the foundation that will help us develop and further define our decarbonization roadmap to achieve our current 2030 GHG emissions reduction targets and eventually 
achieve our 2050 net zero aspiration. These initiatives fall into four primary levers: decarbonizing electricity supply, equipment electrification, energy & asset efficiency, 
and process innovation.
*This is a high-level, illustrative net zero pathway covering only Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions. The actual timing of commercial availability or viability of these technologies may 
vary from the illustration, and their inclusion in this illustration is not a commitment that FCX expects to implement any specific technology within a certain timeframe, or at all. 
We are not planning to use offsets to achieve our 2030 GHG targets. As we develop our understanding and make plans for our 2050 net zero aspiration, we anticipate that we will 
need to balance residual GHG emissions with offsets and removals and plan to explore a variety of opportunities to achieve our net zero aspiration. See Cautionary Statement on 
Page 117 of this report.
EQUIPMENT 
ELECTRIFICATION
PROCESS 
INNOVATION
DECARBONIZING 
ELECTRICITY 
SUPPLY
ENERGY & ASSET 
EFFICIENCY 
1
2
3
4
•	
Autonomous electric trains  
and mobile equipment
•	
Hybrid or electric support 
equipment & light-duty trucks
•	
Diesel-electric haul trucks
•	
Conveyance and other  
haulage alternatives
•	
Artificial intelligence and 
machine learning
• 	 In-pit crush and convey
• 	 Advanced energy management
• 	 Haul truck rebuild program and 
operator scorecards
• 	 Leach to the Last Drop
• 	 Ore sorting
• 	 Advanced block cave 
technology
• 	 Advanced flotation
• 	 Coarse particle filtration
•	
Renewable power at scale,  
with focus on wind and solar
•	
Microgrid integration, including 
battery storage
•	
Lower carbon power sources,  
such as liquefied natural gas (LNG)
•	
Autonomous and  
electrified or alternative fuel 
truck fleets
•	
Next generation trolley assist 
•	
Battery storage and 
infrastructure
•	
Hybrid leach-milling 
flow sheet with step 
change energy intensity 
improvement
• 	 Sulfide leaching with  
geothermal heat and additives
• 	 Next generation milling
• 	 Alternative tailings approaches 
such as filtered or geostable tails 
• 	 Large scale concentrate leach 
plant (CLP)
•	
Integrated process  
flow approaches
•	
Industrial scale next 
generation renewable 
power sources such as 
hydrogen and geothermal
•	
Fully electrified mine 
equipment
•	
Advanced batteries and 
storage
•	
Continued efforts 
to drive efficient 
use and long life 
of equipment and 
infrastructure
•	
Carbon capture  
and storage
•	
Advanced next 
generation renewables
2023
Potential Availability
2030
2040
2050
Interim GHG Targets
Net Zero Aspiration
ILLUSTRATIVE NET ZERO PATHWAY*
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 86
PERFORMANCE
We are advancing important initiatives to reduce our GHG emissions, improve 
energy efficiency, evaluate and integrate the use of lower carbon and renewable 
energy and enhance our resilience to future climate-related risks. 
We continue to make meaningful progress in our efforts to decarbonize our 
electricity supply. In 2023, PT-FI continued advancing plans to transition its existing 
energy source from coal to LNG. PT-FI commissioned its new dual-fuel power 
plant to support increased power requirements during the year and to diversify 
its energy sources. Following completion of a comprehensive feasibility study, 
PT-FI announced plans to replace its existing coal-fired power plant at Grasberg 
with a new 265MW gas-fired combined cycle facility. Both the dual-fuel power 
plant and the new gas-fired combined cycle facility will be fueled by LNG. Capital 
expenditures for the new power generation facilities, to be incurred over the next 
four years, currently approximate $1 billion, representing an incremental cost of $0.4 
billion compared to previously planned investments to refurbish the existing coal 
units later this decade. While we acknowledge that LNG is not a renewable energy 
source, a new power plant fueled by LNG does have the potential to meaningfully 
reduce PT-FI’s GHG emissions intensity at the Grasberg minerals district. 
We continue to advance our “Copper Skies” initiative, which is focused on 
increasing renewable energy power for our Americas operations. In 2023, we 
successfully negotiated and signed a new 160MW renewable energy power 
purchase agreement (PPA) at our Cerro Verde operations in Peru, which is 
expected to transition Cerro Verde to fully renewable energy sources beginning 
in 2026. At our El Abra operations in Chile, we reached an agreement in 2023 
that will allow El Abra to incorporate certified renewable energy into our existing 
PPA on an annual basis as market conditions allow. Due to favorable market 
conditions, we have contracted to obtain 100% of El Abra’s electricity demand 
from renewable sources for 2023. 
In North America, we are working to progress efforts to integrate up to 450MW 
of solar and wind sources into our power supply. In early 2024, we added a solar 
power agreement which is expected to provide more than 41,000 MWh to our Miami 
operations in Arizona. We hope to integrate new renewable energy projects into our 
power supply by the end of 2028 or as quickly as market conditions allow. Our focus 
on responsibly transitioning our energy supply is part of our broader effort to further 
refine our decarbonization roadmap to achieve our goals — today and for the future. 
89+7+3+1+J
Copper Mining	
89%
Smelting & Refining	
7% 
Molybdenum Mining	
3%
Other	
1%
2023
GHG EMISSIONS
BY BUSINESS AREA2
(%)
43+29+9+12+6+1+J
Natural Gas	
43%
Hydro	
29%
Coal, Other Fossil Fuels	
9%
Solar, Wind, Geothermal,  
Biomass	
12%
Nuclear	
6%
Other	
1%
2023
PURCHASED POWER
BY SOURCE
(%)
36+19+45+J
Scope 1	
36%
Scope 2	
19%
Scope 3	
45%
2023
GHG EMISSIONS
BY TYPE1
(%)
View more data in 
the ESG Performance 
Data Section
1. 	 Our calculation of Scope 3 emissions increased by 9% compared to data reported in the 2022 Climate Report due to methodological improvements in calculations for fuel life 
cycle emissions and Category 1-2 emissions associated with construction of the Manyar smelter project and the expansion of PT Smelting.
2. 	 Reflects Scope 1 and 2 emissions only.
 87
GHG REDUCTION TARGET PERFORMANCE 
In 2023, our global absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions increased slightly 
by 1.0%, while production decreased by 0.4%. Due to these small changes our 
total global absolute Scope 1 and 2 (market-based) emissions remained stable at 
approximately 7.8 million metric tons. This remains approximately 5% lower than 
our 2018 baseline total emissions, continuing to reflect significant improvements in 
energy efficiency and grid and energy decarbonization in recent years.
In 2023, our Americas Copper GHG emissions intensity increased by 4.0% 
compared to the prior year; with intensity increasing to 1.4% higher than the 2018 
baseline. The increase in 2023 was the result of several factors, including lower 
ore grades, harder ore types and deepening pits at our U.S. operations. This led 
to increased diesel consumption from longer haulage, more material moved and 
increased electricity use per ton of copper produced. Our projections took this into 
account when setting the 15% target and we expect the added renewables from our 
collective Copper Skies projects and tonnage from leach to the last drop to reverse 
this trend in the coming years.
In 2023, we continued to reduce PT-FI's GHG emissions intensity with a 4% 
improvement over 2022 and a 29% improvement since our 2018 baseline year. The 
commissioning of the dual fuel power plant helped to reduce the carbon intensity 
of the electricity produced at the site while production remained strong. 
In the coming years, we expect this performance to vary due to changes in ore 
composition and related processing requirements, which can impact emissions 
intensity performance.
In 2023, Atlantic Copper resumed normal operations after a 78-day planned 
maintenance shutdown in 2022. This led to a 15% increase in its Scope 1 and 2 
GHG emissions for the year, when compared to 2022 and a 42% reduction since 
the 2018 baseline.
Our primary molybdenum sites saw an 8.0% increase in GHG emissions in 2023 
compared to 2022; however, GHG emissions remain 3.5% below the 2018 baseline 
year. This increase was primarily due to the continued pit expansion at the Climax 
mine (which started in 2022) that required additional material haulage and diesel 
use. As this work is completed and additional renewables are added to the 
Colorado grid, we expect to see GHG emissions decrease.
In 2023, our Scope 3 emissions increased by 9% compared to 2022 due to 
methodological improvements in calculations for fuel life cycle emissions and 
Category 1-2 emissions associated with construction of the new Manyar smelter 
as well as the expansion of PT Smelting (PTS). We expect in our 2024 and 2025 
inventories to see a decrease in Scope 3 emissions, and an increase in Scope 1 
and 2 emissions as PTS and the Manyar Smelter and Precious Metals Refinery 
come online (respectively) and are integrated into our portfolio.
GHG EMISSIONS: 2030 REDUCTION TARGET PERFORMANCE
Years Ended December 31
Baseline Year 
2018 
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
Target Year 
2030 
Intensity Reduction Targets¹ (CO₂e metric tons/metric ton copper)
Americas Copper² - 15% intensity reduction
3.72
3.70
3.81
3.59
3.63
3.78
3.17 
PT-FI Grasberg³ - 30% intensity reduction
4.76
7.73
5.40
3.71
3.52
3.38
3.34
Absolute Reduction Targets⁴ (CO₂e metric tons)
Atlantic Copper Smelter & Refinery - 50% absolute reduction
 176,865 
 146,044 
 126,103 
 112,671 
89,435
102,753 
88,432 
Primary Molybdenum Sites⁵ - 35% absolute reduction
 308,136 
 325,591 
263,023 
232,317 
275,464
297,481 
200,288 
1.	 Intensity reduction targets (CO₂e metric tons / metric ton copper) include total (Scope 1 and 2) emissions and do not include by-products in the denominator. 
2. 	 Americas Copper (for target) includes Bagdad, Cerro Verde, Chino (including Cobre), El Abra, Morenci, Safford (including Lone Star), Sierrita and Tyrone mines as well as the Miami smelter and El Paso refinery. This target includes all payable copper, 
including payable copper in concentrate and cathode, but excludes rod and wire; GHG emissions associated with the production of by-product molybdenum are also included.
3. 	 PT-FI Grasberg's intensity reduction target is based on payable copper produced in concentrate. In 2023, PT-FI concentrate was smelted and refined by PTS and third-party smelters/refineries whose emissions are currently accounted for as our Scope 
3 emissions and therefore not included in this target. Completion of the PTS expansion and Manyar smelter project is currently anticipated to occur in mid-2024 with ramp-up completion scheduled through the end of 2024. Upon completion, we plan to 
review the GHG emissions categorizations for these operations. Certain of these emissions may be reclassified from Scope 3 to Scopes 1 or 2. Following this review, we may adjust our PT-FI target and baseline in line with the GHG Protocol. 
4. 	 Absolute targets include total (Scope 1 and 2) emissions.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
5. 	 Primary molybdenum sites target includes Climax and Henderson mines located in the U.S., and downstream molybdenum processing facilities located in the U.S., U.K. and the Netherlands (Fort Madison, Stowmarket and Rotterdam, respectively).
Note: Where available and applicable, market-based emission factors were used to calculate Scope 2 emissions reflected in this table.
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 88
OUR PATHWAY TO LOWER EMISSION HAULAGE
Our current fleet of haul trucks accounts for approximately 75% of our annual 
diesel fuel consumption. Transitioning the fleet away from diesel to lower 
emissions alternatives will require new technological solutions and innovations —  
many of which will be driven by industry and value chain collaboration. For the 
past several years, we have been trialing and simulating various truck models 
and scenarios, including alternative fuels, payloads, and enabling technology 
such as trolley assist and autonomous haulage systems in order to define the 
potential benefits of converting our fleet. In 2023, we continued to collaborate with 
Caterpillar’s Early Learner program and Komatsu’s GHG Alliance, both of which 
are focused on the development and advancement of zero-emissions mining 
trucks and supporting technologies and infrastructure. We have been trialing both 
Komatsu and Caterpillar hybrid drive ultra-class haul trucks at Cerro Verde. These 
diesel-electric trucks provide a more flexible platform for the future as we evaluate 
and consider enabling technologies, such as trolley assist systems. 
These trials and various simulations demonstrate the potential to reduce fuel use 
by 20% to 30% compared to mechanical-drive trucks. We are also planning a trial 
with Caterpillar of an electric prototype truck at Sierrita in late 2024.
In 2023, we announced plans to convert our fleet of approximately 30 haul 
trucks at our Bagdad mine in Arizona to fully autonomous over the next 3 years. 
This project is expected to optimize our fleet, improve operating efficiency and 
contribute to safety by reducing the number of people in active mining areas. Our 
preliminary estimates show that Bagdad’s haul trucks could reduce idle time by 
more than 10,000 hours per year, which is expected to contribute to a reduction 
in GHG emissions. Although commercially viable innovation in electrification of 
haul trucks on a large-scale is still years in the future, we believe this project will 
position us to capitalize on future technological advancements in electrification.
Transitioning our haul 
truck fleet away from 
diesel to lower emissions 
alternatives will require 
new technological 
solutions and innovations.
Haul Truck at our Cerro 
Verde opertion, Peru.
 89
ADVANCING OUR SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS INITIATIVES 
Scope 3 emissions occur both upstream and downstream of our operations. 
Upstream emissions result from production of materials and fuels that we use 
in our processes such as lime, explosives, chemical reagents and diesel, as well 
as the emissions associated with copper concentrates we purchase for our 
Atlantic Copper smelter and refinery in Spain. Downstream emissions result from 
transport, further refining or transforming of our copper into useable products. 
Generally, Scope 3 emissions for copper are lower compared to many other 
metals as a result of the relatively minimal downstream processing required to 
transform copper cathode into various forms. For some metals other than copper, 
Scope 3 emissions can be multiple times their combined Scope 1 and 2 emissions. 
Our estimated 2023 Scope 3 emissions represented approximately 45% of our 
total Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions. 
Because Scope 3 emissions are generated by other parties (i.e., they are other 
companies’ Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions), they are more difficult to estimate 
accurately. Robust, high-quality data is imperative to both understand our 
current performance as well as to establish a credible reduction pathway that will 
contribute to meaningful climate action. In 2023, we began implementing a new 
software system to enable faster, more efficient and more accurate calculation of 
Scope 3 emissions over time. We also contributed to and are integrating the new 
ICMM Scope 3 Emissions Accounting and Reporting Guidance and Scope 3  
Emissions Target Setting Guidance that will support the standardization and 
accuracy of carbon accounting and reporting across the mining industry. In 
2023, we engaged with 18 of our critical suppliers to discuss their climate-related 
strategies to gain a better understanding of both opportunities and challenges to 
reduce Scope 3 emissions in our supply chains. To learn more about our ongoing 
work with Caterpillar and Komatsu, please refer to the prior page.
ESTABLISHING A SECTORAL DECARBONIZATION APPROACH
We are currently working with the Copper Mark and copper industry peers 
to establish an SDA for the copper sector in alignment with the SBTi. If 
successful, we believe this is will be an important step for the copper 
industry to enable robust and meaningful target-setting using a consistent 
methodology including Scopes 1, 2 and 3. 
An SBTi-aligned SDA for the copper industry would enable producers 
to establish intensity-based targets along a pathway to net zero, while 
accounting for the copper industry’s anticipated growth associated with 
meeting the demands of the global energy transition. Phase 1 of this project 
was completed in early 2024, with the project continuing into 2025. 
As previously disclosed, we are committed to validating our 2030 GHG targets 
with the SBTi. If the copper industry SDA is adopted by the SBTi, we plan to 
use the SDA as the basis for validating and/or updating our targets.
Solar panels near our 
El Abra operation, Chile. 
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 90
WATER STEWARDSHIP 
WHY IT MATTERS 
Access to safe drinking water and sanitation is a fundamental human right and is essential to the well-being of 
communities and the environment. It is also necessary for mines, smelters, processing facilities and reclamation 
projects. Effective management of water resources can reduce the impact of mining activities on water availability 
and quality while respecting the rights of others.
OUR APPROACH 
Water is essential to our work and vital to the long-term sustainability of the company and our host communities. We 
cannot operate without water, and FCX understands the critical importance of managing the impacts of our activities on 
both water availability and quality along with respecting the rights of our host communities and Indigenous neighbors.
FCX’s water stewardship program focuses on securing reliable, long-term water supplies while maximizing water 
use efficiency within our operations. On the supply side, we seek to identify opportunities to shift to more sustainable 
water sources, such as recycled, reused, renewable and lower-quality water. On the use side, we are working 
to identify best practices, scalable levers and technological innovations in order to maintain our high water use 
efficiency rates and reduce our freshwater usage over the long term. We review our water usage and consumption 
patterns regularly in order to understand our water balances, as discussed on page 91, and identify efficiency 
opportunities.
FCX’s operations are in geographically and climatically diverse locations that range from one of the driest places in the 
world (El Abra in the Atacama Desert in Chile) to one of the world’s wettest (PT-FI’s Grasberg operations in the province 
of Central Papua, Indonesia). These varied environments can lead to circumstances of significant competition for water 
or, conversely, where we must implement measures to manage excess water. While we seek to be broadly consistent in 
our water strategy across our operations globally, the varied conditions of our sites require flexibility.
Globally, our objective is to identify, manage and mitigate both our current and future water-related risks to secure 
the necessary water resources vital to support our operations over the long term, while also promoting long-term 
water security for our host communities and ecosystems. We are dedicated to continuously improving our water 
stewardship program and recognize the importance of working collaboratively with our stakeholders, including 
providing education, opportunities to adopt new technologies, and balancing responsible production and societal 
needs and expectations.
We support, and continue the process of implementing, the ICMM Water Position Statement, which outlines our 
commitment to public reporting and water stewardship, including strong and transparent water governance, 
effective water management, securing access to water in a socially and environmentally responsible manner, and 
collaboration on responsible and sustainable water use.
FCX GLOBAL 
WATER MANAGEMENT 
PROGRAM GOALS
1
 
Optimize 
water use efficiency  
in our processes
2
 
Minimize 
use of new freshwater at our 
operations by transitioning  
to renewable, recycled and/or  
lower-quality water sources
3
 
Monitor 
our impact on the surrounding 
communities and environment  
by continually reviewing  
our water supplies
4
 
Evaluate 
new technologies and innovations  
for large-scale tailings  
management and leaching that  
can support reduction of future  
water requirements
 91
Water Balance
Our company-wide water balance identifies how much water we withdraw, 
consume and discharge. We obtain new water through permits, legal rights and 
leases for surface water, and from other sources, including the dewatering of our 
mines, rainfall or stormwater. At certain operations, water also is sourced from 
third-party sources (predominantly effluent). New water withdrawn from these 
sources, together with reused and recycled water from our ore processing plants, 
water treatment plants and tailings facilities make up the total water used across 
our global operations.
Each site maintains a water balance to quantify its water use, consumption, storage 
and discharge volumes. The water balance, coupled with the use of groundwater 
and hydrologic models, are used to track operational performance and to address 
challenges and opportunities related to water availability and water quality. 
With this information, we can identify opportunities to minimize water loss, 
optimize recycling and reuse, and maintain compliance with quality standards. 
Taken together, these ongoing studies inform our efforts to reduce our overall 
water utilization — including requirements for new freshwater — where operational 
efficiencies and production requirements allow.
Consumption is water that is lost in 
operational activities and cannot be 
recovered due primarily to losses 
from evaporation and entrainment 
(water entrained in product or waste). 
Water Recycle/Reuse Rate = (Total 
Water Reused + Recycled) / Total 
Water Utilized
Water Use Efficiency Rate = (Total 
Water Reused + Recycled) / (Total 
Water Utilization – Discharged Water)
TOTAL INPUTS
314,715
WATER INPUTS
TOTAL OUTPUTS
318,875
WATER OUTPUTS
TOTAL RECYCLED/REUSED
1,565,794
OPERATIONS
Processing Plants
Tailings/Waste Storage
Storage
Treatment
RECYCLED/REUSED 
RATE
83%
Most water needs  
are met with the 
RECYCLING 
 
AND REUSE 
of water within  
our operations
89% WATER USE EFFICIENCY 
2023 WATER BALANCE (THOUSAND M3)
35+23+12+19+11+J
67+33+J
Groundwater	
40%
Surface water	
19%
Sea water	
14%
Stormwater	
15%
Third-party sources	 11%
Consumption	
63%
Discharge (off-site)	 37%
View more data in 
the ESG Performance 
Data Section
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 92
WATER USE EFFICIENCY 
Our objective is to maintain high rates of recycled or reused water. In 2023, our total water usage and water recycled/reused remained relatively flat compared to the 
prior year; however, our new water withdrawal increased, which was primarily driven by groundwater withdrawal at PT-FI due to increased production. Our operations 
used approximately 1,880,500 thousand cubic meters of water, including new withdrawals of approximately 315,000 thousand cubic meters. Of our total water use, 83% 
was from recycled or reused sources. By accounting for discharge quantities of approximately 118,300 thousand cubic meters, our water use efficiency was 89%. 
RECYCLED WATER VS. NEW WATER USE
THOUSAND CUBIC METERS
Recycled/Reused Water
New Water Withdrawn
2019 2020
2023
2,000,000
1,500,000
1,000,000
500,000
0
2021
2022
WATER PERFORMANCE
(THOUSAND  
CUBIC METERS)
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
Total New Water Withdrawn1
302,564
261,299
296,805
291,682
314,715
Total Water  
Recycled/Reused
1,408,513
1,231,053
1,325,184
1,526,886
1,565,794
Total Utilized Water 
(Withdrawn + Recycled/Reused)
1,711,077
1,492,352
1,621,989
1,818,568
1,880,509
Water Recycle/Reuse Rate2 (%)
82%
82%
82%
84%
83%
Total Water Discharged3
95,885
101,963
106,127
97,347
118,295
Total Water Consumption⁴
192,792
166,752
184,714
197,983
200,579
Change in Water 
Storage Volume
13,887
-7,416
5,965
-3,647
-4,160
Water Use Efficiency5 (%)
87%
89%
87%
89%
89%
1. 	 New water withdrawal includes new water that is received or extracted by operation and used for the first time. New water withdrawals include high-quality 
freshwater and lower-quality water and are categorized by type: groundwater, surface water, stormwater, sea water or third-party water. Water withdrawals 
exclude water diverted away from operational areas without use.
2.	 Water Recycle/Reuse Rate = (Total Water Recycled + Reused) / Total Water Utilized.
3. 	 Water discharged is water removed from an operation and returned to the environment or a third party after meeting required treatment and discharge standards. 
4. 	 Consumption is water that is lost in operational activities and cannot be recovered due primarily to losses from evaporation and entrainment (water entrained in 
product or waste).
5. 	 Water Use Efficiency Rate = (Total Water Recycled + Reused) / (Total Water Utilization – Discharged Water).
View more data in 
the ESG Performance 
Data Section
 93
Understanding Water Use Associated with Tailings Management 
Our TSFs are responsible for a significant portion of our water consumption 
(the water that is required in operational activities and cannot be recovered), 
due to losses from evaporation and entrainment (or trapped water) at our 
TSFs. While our water use efficiency has averaged 88% over the last five years, 
we believe this will be challenging to maintain in the future using current 
processing and tailings technologies. As our long-lived, large-scale mines 
continue to mature and produce more tailings, the height and surface areas of 
our TSFs will increase, contributing to additional evaporation that we expect 
will increase our water consumption and reduce our water use efficiency. The 
specific ore type, processed at high rates, also drives consumption through 
entrainment. We believe that the most meaningful opportunities to improve 
our water consumption and corresponding water use efficiency over the long 
term will be driven by the deployment of new technologies and innovations 
pertaining to large-scale tailings management (greater than 100,000 tons per 
day). See the Tailings Innovation section for more information. 
In 2023, certain of our sites began updating their site water management plans 
and forecasting models. The plans outline the site-specific water management 
objectives and the models estimate the outcomes of future scenarios. The 
results help us continually monitor the impacts of production and other 
potential changes on TSF-related water consumption. In 2023, updates were 
completed at Morenci and Cerro Verde. In 2024, we plan to complete the 
updates for Bagdad, Chino, Colorado and Sierrita. Also in 2023, we focused 
on identifying best practices and initiatives in place at Cerro Verde that could 
be implemented across our operations. Cerro Verde’s robust site water model, 
mature cross-functional water team, tailings facility geometry and local geology 
make it our most efficient site from a water perspective with an average water 
use efficiency of 90% in recent years. 
Commitment to Develop Water Stewardship Plans
During 2023, after further review and evaluation of potential water-related targets 
at the enterprise level, we no longer believe that the development of an enterprise-
level water-related target would be meaningful, and, instead, we are committed 
to developing site-based water stewardship plans. As part of our evaluation, we 
considered the Copper Mark’s updated site-based water stewardship criteria, 
which requires the assessment of not only internal operations, but also localized 
impact in the water catchment, with particular emphasis on water as a shared 
resource and local scarcity risk, and the establishment of water stewardship 
targets and/or objectives commensurate with a site’s water-related risks. This 
POTENTIAL WATER EFFICIENCY BENEFITS  
ASSOCIATED WITH LEACH TO THE LAST DROP
Our Leach to the Last Drop initiative continues to demonstrate significant 
potential to recover copper in leach piles that was previously considered 
unrecoverable by traditional methods. FCX currently has an estimated 38 
billion pounds of copper in our active leach stockpiles that has not been 
accounted for in our traditional leaching approach. By the end of 2023, we 
achieved our initial run rate target of approximately 200 million pounds of 
copper per year. By increasing the amount of heat within the pile, reducing 
particle sizes, injecting air to increase the rate of oxidation, and other 
enhancements, we believe we could achieve a run rate of approximately 800 
million pounds of copper per annum in the future. Because this copper is 
already contained within our stockpiles, it does not require additional mining 
which could enable us to increase copper production with a lower carbon-
intensity footprint. In general, our forecasting models also show that copper 
production from leaching is approximately 50% more water efficient compared 
to production processed by a mill concentrator. We will continue to monitor 
water use as Leach to the Last Drop progresses.
assessment should include water consumption, quality, efficiency and off-site water 
conservation programs. In consideration of the Copper Mark’s updated criteria, our 
ongoing site-level climate resiliency work, and the vastly different water-related risks 
across our operations, our site-based water stewardship plans will include existing 
water stewardship measures for managing efficiency, consumption, supply, quality, 
community resilience, and conservation; ongoing risk identification; and site or 
catchment-specific targets and/or objectives to address risks and opportunities. 
Our focus for this work in the coming years will be on our seven operations with the 
highest water stress ratings, as defined in the water supply risk assessment table on 
page 94 — Cerro Verde, El Abra, Henderson, Miami, Morenci, Safford and Sierrita. 
We expect to complete the water stewardship plans for Cerro Verde and El Abra by 
the end of 2024. To advance these efforts, in 2023, we worked to identify leading 
operational water efficiency practices at Cerro Verde that could be applied at other 
sites across the company. We are also progressing four catchment-specific risk 
assessments in Arizona and one catchment-specific risk assessment in Peru. We 
continue to seek improvements through operational and technological innovations, 
including Leach to the Last Drop, and are working to identify alternative water 
sources for Cerro Verde and El Abra.
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 94
Understanding Our Water Supply Risks 
Based on a combination of resources from the World Resources Institute (WRI), 
our own qualitative assessments and our local knowledge of site-specific 
circumstances, the table below illustrates the water risks associated with each 
of our operating sites. The number of water risk regions with poor water quality 
or scarce supply is increasing globally, and as a result, competition for water 
is expected to increase. In many instances, we share a freshwater source or 
catchment with other users, such as our local host communities, municipalities, 
and agricultural or industrial organizations. 
To effectively manage our water supply-related risks in the near term, we seek 
to understand the various and continually changing physical environments, 
hydrological systems, and sociopolitical and regulatory contexts of each of  
our operations.
Our water supply risk assessment is an iterative process that we aim to update 
periodically. Risk considerations include water sources, water quality, baseline 
water stress, excess water, litigation, reputational risks and access challenges —  
and in due course, the potential long-term impacts associated with climate 
change. The conditions and near-term water supply risks that exist near our 
operations are summarized in the table below. 
WATER SUPPLY RISKS
OPERATION
CLIMATE 
CONDITIONS1
WATER SOURCES2
WATER SUPPLY RISKS
WATER 
STRESS3
EXCESS 
WATER4
ACCESS 
CHALLENGES5
Bagdad (Arizona)
Arid; Semi-desert
Groundwater, Surface water, Stormwater, Third Party
Low-Med
Cerro Verde (Arequipa, Peru)
Arid; Desert
Groundwater, Surface water, Stormwater, Third Party
High
X
Chino (New Mexico)
Arid; Semi-desert
Groundwater, Stormwater, Third Party
Low-Med
Climax (Colorado)
Snow; Fully humid
Groundwater, Surface water, Stormwater
Low-Med
El Abra (Calama, Chile)
Arid; Desert
Groundwater, Stormwater
Extremely High
X 
Grasberg (Central Papua, 
Indonesia)
Tropical; Fully humid
Groundwater, Surface water, Stormwater
Low
X
Henderson (Colorado)
Snow; Fully humid
Groundwater, Surface water, Stormwater
Med-High
X
Miami (Arizona)
Arid; Semi-desert
Groundwater, Surface water, Stormwater, Third Party
Med-High
X
X
Morenci (Arizona)
Arid; Semi-desert
Groundwater, Surface water, Stormwater, Third Party
Med-High
X
Safford (Arizona)
Arid; Semi-desert
Groundwater, Stormwater
Med-High
X 
Sierrita (Arizona)
Arid; Semi-desert
Groundwater, Stormwater
Med-High
X
Tyrone (New Mexico)
Arid; Semi-desert
Groundwater, Surface water, Stormwater
Low-Med
1. 	 Climate conditions based on the Köppen-Geiger climate classification terminology. 		
	
	
	
2. 	 Water sources can include groundwater, surface water, stormwater, sea water, or third-party sources (including effluent). Third-party water sources are primarily sourced from wastewater effluent. 
3. 	 FCX determines baseline water stress ratings by referencing the World Resources Institute’s Aqueduct tool's baseline water stress classifications where our operations are located and considering site-specific circumstances of 
withdrawal at each operation, including the location of available water sources.
4. 	 Excess water risk applies to sites which receive more stormwater through precipitation and/or snowmelt than can be used for operational purposes. This risk is mitigated through water management plans, including water balance 
forecasting, diversions, enhanced evaporation and water treatment.
5. 	 Access challenges can include legal challenges or potential changes in law or regulations that could impact our access to certain water supplies.		
	
	
	
 95
THE COLORADO RIVER BASIN 
Nearly 6 million acres of farmland, 20 tribal reservations and 40 million 
people¹ across 7 U.S. states and Mexico depend, in whole or in part, on 
water from the Colorado River Basin. Significant growth, overallocation and 
declining climate conditions have resulted in water shortages and stress 
that impact Colorado River water users. Through a variety of mechanisms, 
including tribal leases, a municipal and industrial subcontract and a 
non-Indian agricultural contract, three of our sites – Miami, Morenci and 
Sierrita – currently utilize water directly from the Colorado River through the 
Central Arizona Project (CAP) system, a 336-mile-long system of aqueducts, 
tunnels, pumping stations and pipelines. Approximately 35% and 15% of the 
freshwater supply used at Morenci and Sierrita, respectively, comes from the 
CAP system. 
To support the resilience of our operations, as well as for nearby communities, 
we have made significant investments to store some of our allocated CAP 
water supply in underground aquifers in the Phoenix and Tucson areas. The 
stored water is regulated by the Arizona Department of Water Resources. For 
each acre-foot of water stored, FCX acquires a long-term storage credit (LTSC), 
which can be accessed at any time in the future. In times of water shortage, 
FCX has agreements in place to transfer its LTSCs to local communities, 
allowing them to access the stored water in exchange for their rights to other 
water sources, such as the Black River (a tributary to the Salt River). FCX 
currently holds sufficient LTSCs for Morenci, which we estimate will allow 
continued access to water for approximately 20 years. 
In May 2023, Arizona, California and Nevada announced a consensus 
proposal to conserve more than 3 million acre-feet of Colorado River water 
in Lake Mead between 2023 and 2026. Part of the water savings includes 
voluntary contributions from water users across Arizona totaling more than 
350,000 acre-feet in 2023. FCX participated in the coalition contributing 
a block of its own water for savings in Lake Mead. Coupled with favorable 
climate conditions, Lake Mead has risen 32 feet since it was at its lowest 
elevation in July of 2022, reducing the likelihood of near-term shortage 
reductions through 2025.
Developing Alternative Water Sources
Continuous operation at our mines is dependent on many factors, including 
our ability to maintain our water rights and claims, and the continuing physical 
availability of water supplies. We are focused on diversifying our water sources — 
reducing our dependence on traditional freshwater sources and transitioning to 
nontraditional or alternative sources, such as municipal wastewater (effluent) or 
seawater. By using effluent or seawater to support our water requirements, we can 
help to reduce the strain on traditional freshwater sources in our local catchments, 
which often are shared with our neighboring communities. 
We currently use effluent to support our water supply requirements at several of 
our operations, including Morenci, Miami and Bagdad in Arizona, at Chino in New 
Mexico and at Cerro Verde in Peru. We are also exploring the potential to use 
effluent at our Sierrita mine in Arizona. 
Nearly 97% of the water on the planet is saltwater contained in oceans. With 
proper treatment, this water could serve as a water supply resource for our mining 
operations in areas constrained by freshwater access. For example, half of the 
villages surrounding PT-FI’s Manyar smelter project in Indonesia lack access to 
running water. While the government is installing a drinking water pipeline to 
the area, PT-FI recognized that utilizing this water source for our commercial 
operations could create significant competition and strain on this resource for our 
host communities. As a result, the PT-FI project team evaluated alternative water 
supply options and built a new desalination plant as the primary water source for 
the Manyar smelter.
Similarly, in Chile, the El Abra mine is located in an arid region with extremely high 
water risk. Our current groundwater extraction permit for Salar de Ascotán expires 
in 2029, and we are evaluating options for water infrastructure alternatives to 
provide options to extend existing operations and support a future expansion. 
At sites with surplus water, we are evaluating opportunities for additional water 
storage to capture high flow storm events for carry over into dry seasons.  
1.	 W.P. Carey School of Business, James, T., Evans, A., Madly, E., & Kelly, C. (2014 December 18).  
The Economic Importance of the Colorado River to the Basin Region. Arizona State University.
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 96
RESILIENCE AND PREPARING FOR THE LONG TERM 
Some of our operations are situated in challenging environments where 
enhancing resilience to the impacts of water-related risks is already a critical part 
of our daily operations. This includes the health, safety and production risks of 
heavy rains, arid environments or heat-related occupational illness. To prepare our 
operations for potentially severe weather-related impacts in the future, we aim to 
take a holistic approach to risk management and preventive planning. 
Company-wide processes to address risks, including climate, seek to cover the 
full life cycle of our assets — from a pre-project sustainability review process to 
resiliency planning for reclamation and closure. In 2023, we enhanced our water 
modeling framework to better account for long-term climate modeling (e.g., 
temperature, precipitation) and forecasting evaporation rates for long-term water 
balance simulations to estimate impacts due to climate change and with respect 
to life of mine plans. We expect to implement these enhancements at select sites 
in 2024. 
As described in our 2022 Climate Report, our first global climate scenario analysis 
identified three physical risks associated with water. In 2022, we conducted three 
follow-on third-party studies to better understand how potential climate-related 
impacts could materialize at a more localized level. These detailed evaluations 
tested for trends and shifts in extreme storm events, including trend analysis on 
historical data collected from regional precipitation stations as well as model 
projections over different durations (e.g., one-day, three-day and annual). Through 
2023, we completed 14 detailed site-specific studies, including both operational 
and non-operational sites.
For sites where climate change models project a significant increase in 
precipitation, we have been examining the potential effects, including whether 
the original design of a facility may accommodate these modeled projections. 
Initially, these evaluations have focused on our tailings facilities and associated 
infrastructure; however, we plan to expand this work to cover other infrastructure 
in the future. 
We also assessed sea level rise and coastal flooding risks at our Atlantic Copper 
site in Huelva, Spain, our Manyar smelter project near Surabaya, Indonesia, and 
our Amamapare port in Central Papua, Indonesia. 
In 2022, analysis by DHI Group (DHI) — a global water management consultancy 
firm — determined that there is negligible credible risk of coastal flooding at the 
Atlantic Copper site through 2050 and critical infrastructure is adequately raised 
above all credible coastal flood levels at the Manyar smelter project through 
2050. In 2022 and early 2023, DHI undertook a detailed evaluation of the potential 
for coastal flooding at FCX’s Amamapare port on the southern coast of Central 
Papua, Indonesia. The Amamapare port is the main shipping hub for our Grasberg 
copper concentrates and where the power plant for the entirety of the Grasberg 
operations and many other support services are located. To evaluate coastal 
flooding potential, the assessment considered how multiple variables may change 
over the design life of the facility, including tides, mean sea level, storm surge, 
sea level rise, and settlement or subsidence. The study concluded that some 
infrastructure at the port needs further study in order to develop appropriate 
mitigation measures to reduce the risk of flooding in the coming decades due 
to a combination of the variables listed above, some of which are driven or 
exacerbated by climate change.
CONTRIBUTING TO WATER RESILIENCY FOR MINING COMMUNITIES 
To help support future water resiliency for the area, our Chino and Tyrone 
operations have been actively engaged in a series of efforts, which include 
collaborating with key stakeholders, financial commitments and a potential 
company match. Chino has worked with neighboring communities, known as 
the mining district, to support their ability to grow and control their own water 
rights by agreeing to transfer from the company’s water rights 250-acre feet 
of water to the Village of Santa Clara and 200-acre feet to the Town of Hurley 
as part of the Regional Water Plan. Chino has supplied water to the town of 
Hurley for several decades, and this transfer will provide the town ownership 
of their own water rights. Additionally, the operations have contributed 
funding towards key infrastructure for municipal wastewater treatment 
plant and irrigation repairs. Through these combined efforts, surrounding 
communities will continue to have access to clean water even after the mines’ 
work is finished.
 97
Nature & Thriving Environments 
One of the three interrelated pillars in our sustainability strategy is “Thriving 
Environments.” Through this pillar, we acknowledge that mining impacts the 
natural environment. We work to conduct our operations with minimal adverse 
impacts on the environment and people, and we support the protection of 
ecosystems through responsible environmental stewardship. This commitment 
is embedded in our management systems, policies and approach to continuous 
improvement. We also recognize and have a long-standing commitment to work 
with our host communities, including Indigenous Peoples, to identify and conserve 
cultural heritage and other important resources where we operate.
As a global mining company, we understand that we are dependent upon nature 
and its naturally occurring resources. This perspective has guided our efforts 
related to climate, water, biodiversity and land use to date. While we have long 
appreciated the interconnectedness of these topics, we are currently working 
to deepen our understanding of the nexus between these critical environmental 
issues — including both our impacts and dependencies — as we broaden our 
perspective to consider nature as a whole and its potential impacts on people.
To that end, in 2023, management presented to the Board’s CRC on the emerging 
expectations around nature, and during the annual review of its charter in early 
2024, the CRC added nature to its oversight mandate. In 2023, we began to develop 
a company-wide nature strategy, informed by the work we have been doing for 
many years to progress our environmental priorities, our habitat restoration efforts 
that are part of site-specific closure plans as well as the emerging frameworks 
related to nature. We also evaluated the Task Force on Nature-related Financial 
Disclosures and in early 2024, we formally committed to aligning with this 
framework for our future work and disclosures over the coming years.
Also in 2023, we actively contributed to the development of ICMM's new Nature 
Position Statement, published in January 2024. This new position statement aims 
to enhance the industry’s collective action and contribution towards a nature-
positive future. Through the position statement, member companies commit to 
focus their efforts within four spheres of influence — direct operations, value 
chain, landscapes and systems transformation — supported by governance and 
transparency. The core commitments will be integrated into our nature strategy 
and are outlined to the right. 
ICMM NATURE POSITION STATEMENT
GOVERNANCE 
AND 
TRANSPARENCY
SYSTEMS
4
Creating the enabling conditions to catalyse 
broader nature positive change and 
transformation within and beyond our industry
Integrating nature considerations into 
decision-making and developing consistent 
metrics for reporting progress
LANDSCAPE
3
Collaborating and building capacity with 
local and regional partners to support 
and enhance healthy, resilient ecosystems 
around our operations
VALUE CHAIN
2
Partnering with suppliers, customers and 
key stakeholders to support value chain 
action for nature
DIRECT 
OPERATIONS
1
Stewarding operational lands and  
natural resources to drive positive change 
for nature and future generations
5
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 98
Biodiversity
WHY IT MATTERS 
Biodiversity is critical to maintaining resilient ecosystems, which provide people, 
flora and fauna with valuable resources like food, water and the habitats necessary 
to support life. The impacts of climate change, such as prolonged droughts, 
wildfires and sea level rise, are having a significant impact on biodiversity globally.
OUR APPROACH 
Our Environmental Policy states our commitment to contribute to the 
conservation of nature and biodiversity, implement the mitigation hierarchy to 
assess risks and impacts to nature, and commit not to explore or mine at any 
UNESCO World Heritage Sites. 
As part of our mining and processing activities, we are responsible for 
management of our land and the associated biodiversity. We are committed to 
proactively identifying and managing the potential impacts of our operations 
on biodiversity, land and surrounding ecosystems and, where adverse impacts 
cannot be avoided, mitigating them. This includes effectively identifying and 
managing biodiversity-related risks. 
We focus on biodiversity and land management across the life cycle of our 
operations. Our sites and subject matter experts on our corporate team 
collaborate to evaluate each potential project area in order to identify and 
share mapping of key features related to biodiversity, cultural resources, water 
resources and various other environmental factors before a project proceeds.  
In some cases, these measures may be completed to fulfill regulatory 
requirements governing project authorizations. Biodiversity, habitat restoration 
and conservation are also key components of our reclamation plans and 
activities at our sites. 
By applying the mitigation hierarchy, we aim to manage risks and potential impacts 
with the long-term ambition of No Net Loss for new mines and major expansion 
projects at existing mines. In 2023, we began applying the approach to our first 
major expansion project since committing to the mitigation hierarchy in 2021. We 
recognize the mitigation hierarchy is most effective when implemented during the 
earliest phases of project planning to help maximize opportunities for avoidance and 
minimize impacts. We have integrated the hierarchy into our existing development 
process for new projects and trained our environmental teams to routinely apply it to 
all projects at operating sites that may disturb natural habitats. 
Through the Copper Mark assurance process, our third-party assurance provider 
reviews project-specific documentation for avoidance evaluations and mitigation 
plans when avoidance cannot be incorporated into a project plan.
We also are committed to promoting opportunities to contribute to the conservation 
and enhancement of biodiversity both within and beyond our operational 
boundaries. Our conservation initiatives aim to produce benefits for both biodiversity 
and people, in order to foster collaboration with our communities and build trust. 
We implement habitat restoration and conservation work through partners such as 
The Nature Conservancy and Trout Unlimited. We also partner with wildlife recovery 
and rehabilitation groups such as Liberty Wildlife and Wild at Heart Raptors, both 
in Arizona, and we made a corporate pledge to support a wildlife recovery center 
through the Phoenix Zoo. We seek to engage our employees, local communities and 
other interested stakeholders in conservation work. 
OFFSET
RESTORE/REHABILITATE
MINIMIZE
AVOID
NO NET LOSS
MITIGATION HIERARCHY
 99
Biodiversity Management Plans 
We implement a variety of programs and strategies at our operations that seek to 
proactively identify and mitigate biodiversity risks while promoting conservation 
opportunities in collaboration with government agencies and other voluntary 
opportunities. All of our North American sites implement Wildlife Protection Plans. 
These plans are based on adaptive management principles to effectively address 
biodiversity risks resulting from operational and ecological changes at the sites. 
Several sites (Chino, Morenci, Tyrone and Tohono) also implement risk-based Avian 
Protection Plans that focus specifically on minimizing potential risks to migratory 
birds. In South America, our El Abra operations in Chile and Cerro Verde operations 
in Peru have biodiversity management and action plans, which include programs 
focused on protecting and enhancing biodiversity within the areas of influence of 
their mining operations and mitigating the impacts on biodiversity resources.
In Indonesia, PT-FI maintains a 5-year Biodiversity Strategic Action Plan. In 2022, 
PT-FI conducted a workshop to update the plan for 2023 through 2027. In addition 
to representatives from PT-FI, third-party participants in the workshop included 
research organizations, universities, environmental consultants and government 
representatives. Through the workshop, it was affirmed that PT-FI is meeting its 
commitments and incorporates the key tenets of the national-level Indonesian 
Biodiversity Strategic Action Plan.
In early 2024, we published a standalone summary of biodiversity management 
at FCX which details our corporate policies, programs and tools for identifying, 
evaluating and mitigating risks to biodiversity, and includes site-level biodiversity 
management plans for Cerro Verde, El Abra, Morenci and PT-FI (Grasberg 
operations). We selected these four sites based on their physical footprints, local 
biodiversity resources and/or proximity to biodiversity resources. For information 
on how we are beginning to prioritize sites based on nature-related considerations 
please refer to the Nature & Thriving Environments section.
In early 2024, we published detailed  
site-level biodiversity management plans  
for Cerro Verde, El Abra, Morenci and  
PT-FI Grasberg.
Environmental monitoring at the Salar de Ascotán 
salt flats near our El Abra operation, Chile.
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 100
FCX SITES RECOGNIZED FOR BIODIVERSITY EFFORTS 
FCX actively participates in the Conservation Certification program of the WHC, 
which formally recognizes meaningful biodiversity conservation, environmental 
education and community outreach programs. FCX has 17 certified programs 
through the WHC globally, including 14 North America sites, both of our South 
America sites and Grasberg in Indonesia. Of those, 16 are gold certified (the highest 
tier of recognition) and 1 is silver (the second highest tier of recognition). In 2023, 
Climax, Chino, United Verde, Cerro Verde and PT-FI were recertified through WHC. 
•	 FCX received the WHC's 2023 Corporate Conservation Leadership Award, 
presented annually to a single company to recognize its achievement in 
conservation efforts. Additionally, Tohono, Port Nickel and Tyrone were 
recognized for their specific biodiversity projects. For example, New Mexico’s 
Tyrone operations received the Species of Concern Project Award for its 
collaboration with the U.S. Forest Service and other local stakeholders 
to monitor and manage the Southwestern Willow Flycatcher. Tyrone has 
implemented practices such as increased irrigation along the Gila River to 
stimulate expansion of the riparian habitat and managing grazing leases it 
controls to protect the ecosystem that supports the birds. Tyrone has been 
involved in flycatcher habitat protection efforts since the 1990s. 
•	 Tohono’s management of a decant line at the long-closed mine on the 
Tohono O’odham Nation in Arizona to benefit the California Leaf-Nosed Bat 
received the Bat Project Award. The decant line — a large pipe buried in 
the ground — has become an important habitat for the bats and serves as a 
maternity roost for the local population. The company has erected cupolas at 
either end of the pipe to protect the openings so bats can come and go while 
still being protected. Tohono staff have been working with Bat Conservation 
International to monitor and manage the bat population since 2007. 
•	 Port Nickel’s restoration of bottomland hardwood habitats along the 
Mississippi River in Louisiana was recognized with the Formal Learning 
Project Award. High school students assist in planting native wetland 
species and learn how to identify invasive species as part of the project. 
Students also learn other technical skills, such as data collection and 
monitoring water quality. 
Environmental monitoring near 
our Climax mine, Colorado.
BIODIVERSITY RESEARCH & EDUCATION CENTER IN INDONESIA
PT-FI’s Grasberg operations and support area encompass multiple ecosystems 
and host one of the richest and most biodiverse regions in the world. The PT-FI 
Grasberg operational area is adjacent to the Lorentz National Park, the largest 
protected area in Southeast Asia and the only protected area in the world that 
incorporates continuous intact tracts of ecosystems from alpine to tropical marine 
environments, including extensive lowland wetlands. In 1999, Lorentz National 
Park was declared a World Heritage Site by the UNESCO. 
Conserving and protecting Papua’s biodiversity and ecosystems is a high priority 
for both PT-FI and FCX. Since 1994, PT-FI has collaborated with national and 
international scientists on comprehensive surveys of vegetation, mammals, 
birds, amphibians, reptiles, freshwater and estuarine fish, aquatic insects and 
terrestrial insects. Using information from the surveys, PT-FI develops appropriate 
biodiversity conservation programs using principles of restoration ecology 
for rehabilitation and reclamation of disturbed areas in the Grasberg minerals 
district. PT-FI seeks to establish strong partnerships with multiple stakeholder 
groups involved in conservation and natural resource management, including 
governments, NGOs, universities, research organizations and citizens. For 
example, we continue to support research on the New Guinea Highland Wild Dog, 
known as the “singing dog.”
Milepost 21 (MP 21) is where PT-FI’s biodiversity conservation, land use and 
research center is located in the lowlands in a former tailings deposition area. MP 
21 is the site of pilot plantations, wildlife conservation initiatives, and research and 
educational programming.
PT-FI conducts research and trials at MP 21 to evaluate the growth and viability 
of various agricultural crops and forest plantation species, assess metal uptake 
in food crops and document natural succession processes on tailings deposits. 
In 2023, PT-FI planted more than 150 plant species for testing, including legume 
cover crops for livestock feed; endemic trees such as casuarinas, matoa, 
ironwoods, callophylums and eucalyptus; plantation trees such as coconut, cacao, 
coffee and jackfruit; agricultural crops such as pineapples, melons, sugar cane, 
sago and bananas; and vegetables and grains such as chili peppers, tomatoes, 
cucumbers, rice, maize, beans and squash. 
Additionally, PT-FI is conducting an ecological risk assessment at its Grasberg 
operations to evaluate aquatic and terrestrial wildlife risks potentially associated 
with its mine operations, which is expected to be completed in 2025.
MP 21 also supports the wildlife repatriation program that PT-FI conducts in 
collaboration with various governmental agencies. Enclosures at MP 21 are used 
to temporarily house endemic animals, including endangered pig-nosed turtles, 
that have been confiscated from the illegal wildlife trade prior to releasing them 
back into the wild. From the start of the program to the end of 2023, PT-FI has 
assisted in releasing approximately 55,000 endemic animals, including more than 
50,000 pig-nosed turtles.
Finally, education and outreach are major focuses of PT-FI’s biodiversity efforts. In 
2023, PT-FI reached nearly 13,000 students and community members through its 
environmental events, including events on Earth Day, National Waste Awareness 
Day, Environmental Day, Ozone Day, and National Flora and Fauna Day.
 101
In 2023, PT-FI was recognized by 
the Ministry of Environment and 
Forestry for its efforts to save 
tens of thousands of animals.
Tailings Management
WHY IT MATTERS 
Effective tailings management is critical to mining safely, protecting people and the 
environment, and to maintaining social license to operate. Tailings are the finely 
ground natural rock particles or by-products that remain after the economically 
valuable minerals have been processed and extracted from the mined ore. Tailings 
are transported from processing facilities to depositional management and/or 
storage facilities. The potential failure of tailings facilities and other impoundments at 
any mining operation could cause severe or catastrophic damage that could result 
in loss of life, property or environmental harm, among other things.
OUR APPROACH 
The health and safety of our workforce and host communities, and the protection 
of the environment are fundamental to our extensive tailings management 
programs and approach. Our objective is to have zero fatalities, zero catastrophic 
failures and zero unplanned discharges from any of our tailings facilities. 
We remain focused on the safe execution of our tailings management programs by 
maintaining robust, multi-tiered governance, which includes appropriately qualified 
personnel with clearly defined roles, responsibilities and accountabilities. Our 
Board and executive management are firmly committed to providing the necessary 
financial and technical resources to maintain the safety and integrity of our tailings 
facilities globally, with a focus on risk management and continuous improvement. 
FCX has comprehensive measures in place to help ensure our tailings facilities are 
designed, built, operated, closed and monitored to minimize risk to our workforce, 
host communities and the environment. Although there is some overlap among 
the categories, our safeguards generally fall within four categories: (1) engineering 
practices and safe designs, (2) adherence to construction and operational 
parameters through monitoring and use of technology, (3) multi-tiered oversight, 
and (4) adherence to practices grounded in continuous improvement and learning 
from past experiences, including industry failures and best practices. 
Our Tailings Management Policy outlines our commitment to manage our 
tailings responsibly and effectively across our sites globally, and is intended to be 
implemented in conjunction with our Environmental, Human Rights and Social 
Performance policies and associated management systems. The policy also 
includes our commitment to implement the Global Industry Standard on Tailings 
Management (the Tailings Standard) at our applicable TSFs in the Americas. 
AMERICAS 
FCX’s tailings stewardship program has evolved over the last 20 years into our 
comprehensive tailings management system and applies to all TSFs across our 
Americas operations. Our tailings management system in the Americas, led by 
our expert team of tailings professionals, includes specific programs to address 
the various aspects of a TSF — over all phases of its life cycle — while promoting 
continuous improvement. 
Through our Americas' tailings management system, we systematically seek 
to identify and analyze, then eliminate or mitigate failure modes in an effort to 
minimize the risk of failure scenarios associated with our TSFs. Our Americas' 
tailings management system incorporates applicable regulations and international 
best practices, including the integration of the Tailings Standard since its 
establishment in 2020. 
FCX subsidiaries in the Americas currently operate 15 active TSFs, including 13 
in the U.S. and 2 in Peru. We also manage 35 TSFs in the U.S. that are inactive or 
closed and another 22 TSFs that were deemed Safely Closed, according to the 
definition in the Tailings Standard, as of January 31, 2024. 
TAILINGS STORAGE FACILITIES BY DESIGN & STATUS¹
UPSTREAM
CENTERLINE
DOWNSTREAM
Active
10
5
0
Inactive or Closed
31
2
2
Safely Closed2
19
3
0
Total Tailings Storage Facilities
60
10
2
1. 	 Tailings storage facility counts include non-operating sites and are reviewed at least annually and updated 
according to construction of new facilities, changes in operating conditions, closure, business transactions and 
legal reviews. FCX provides additional disclosure of its tailings facilities, location, status, construction type and 
hazard categorization and descriptions of embankment types (upstream, centerline and downstream) on our 
website at fcx.com/sustainability/tailings-americas.
2. 	 Safely Closed is defined by the Tailings Standard and requires confirmation by an external independent 
reviewer and an internal Accountable Executive (AE). While many of our inactive/closed facilities have not yet 
gone through the specific review process to confirm the Safely Closed designation, we consistently apply our 
tailings management system to all facilities to support their safe management. 
Note: Information reported is as of January 31, 2024, in alignment with FCX's 2023 Form 10-K. FCX's tailings storage 
facilities are located in North America and South America. At our Grasberg operations in Indonesia, PT-FI operates 
a controlled riverine tailings management system which is not represented in the table above. 
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 102
 103
Additional Resources
For additional information regarding Tailings Management, including 
our Americas’ TSFs’ updated consequence classifications and Tailings 
Standard conformance reports, please refer the Tailings - Americas 
section of our website. 
GOVERNANCE - AMERICAS 
FCX maintains multiple layers of oversight of our active TSFs, including site-level implementation, functional accountability, third-party review, and Board and executive 
leadership oversight, as summarized below. For closed and inactive sites, we have a similar oversight structure that reports through our Chief Sustainability Officer and 
includes the same roles for site-level engineers, engineers of record (EoR), tailings stewardship teams (TST) and Independent Tailings Review Board (ITRB) or senior 
independent technical reviewer.
SITE-LEVEL IMPLEMENTATION
•	 Site Tailings Management, 
Engineers and Operators: Internal 
team that implements the tailings 
management program and 
regularly monitors, identifies and 
addresses potential risks. 
•	 Responsible Tailings Facility 
Engineer (RTFE): Internal 
engineer that is appointed by 
the AE and provides technical 
expertise, manages risk and 
liaises with the EoR. 
•	 EoR: External engineer who 
provides expert design and 
engineering analysis, technical 
support, inspection, review and 
guidance to support an RTFE.
FUNCTIONAL ACCOUNTABILITY  
AND RESPONSIBILITIES
•	 Accountable Executive (AE): 
Chief Operating Officer who 
reports directly to the CEO and 
is accountable for the safe and 
responsible management of TSFs. 
•	
Tailings and Water Director: 
Oversees RTFE activities; engages 
with and reviews the site-level 
implementation of tailings 
management system activities.
THIRD-PARTY REVIEW
•	 ITRB: Third-party, internationally 
known expert panels who 
provide independent opinions 
and guidance on the physical 
integrity, safety and performance 
of TSFs and have access to 
corporate senior leadership.
•	 TST: Third-party professional 
engineers who have not been 
directly involved with the design 
or operation of the TSFs and 
internal experts who inspect all 
TSFs, review documents and 
monitoring data, identify potential 
deficiencies and recommend 
corrective actions. 
•	
Tailings Management System 
Implementation Assessment 
Consultant: An external assessor 
engaged to review the efficacy of 
the tailings management system 
as applied at a site-specific level 
to support proper management 
and operation of the TSFs.
BOARD AND EXECUTIVE 
LEADERSHIP OVERSIGHT
•	 Corporate Senior Leadership: 
Executive leadership that 
participates in major decisions 
related to the tailings 
management program, including 
allocation of resources for TSF-
related operations, initiatives and 
projects. 
•	 Board of Directors: The Board’s 
CRC is responsible for the 
oversight of FCX’s tailings 
management program and 
receives regular updates from 
the AE.
TAILINGS STANDARD IMPLEMENTATION
The Tailings Standard was published in 2020 and is the first global standard for 
tailings management that can be applied to existing and future TSFs. The Tailings 
Standard includes 77 requirements across 6 key areas — design, construction, 
operation and monitoring of tailings facilities; management and governance; use 
of integrated multi-disciplinary knowledge; engaging with affected stakeholders; 
emergency response and long-term recovery; and public disclosure. As an ICMM 
member and in accordance with our commitment in our Tailings Management 
Policy, FCX implemented the Tailings Standard for all TSFs with “extreme” or “very 
high” potential consequences based on credible failure modes by August 2023 
and is committed to implementing the Tailings Standard by August 2025 for all 
other TSFs with other consequence classifications that have not been deemed as 
Safely Closed each as defined in the Tailings Standard. 
In 2023, FCX continued to advance conformance with the Tailings Standard for our 
Americas operating TSFs, including achieving conformance of all TSFs at Morenci 
by August 2023 (deadline for “extreme” or “very high” consequence classifications). 
Additionally, we achieved conformance of the TSF at Henderson ahead of the 
deadline for TSFs with other consequence classifications. The team also continued 
to progress conformance of TSFs at Bagdad, Cerro Verde, Chino, Climax and Sierrita 
TSFs, ahead of the August 2025 deadline. We are also progressing conformance or 
Safe Closure determinations for our remaining closed or discontinued TSFs.
Consequence Classification for Our Tailing Storage Facilities 
Prior to the Tailings Standard, we classified our TSFs following the Canadian Dam 
Association’s (CDA) Dam Safety Guidelines (2013), and determined classifications 
based on hypothetical worst-case TSF failure scenarios. This was a conservative 
approach that did not consider the credibility of a given TSF failure scenario. As a 
result of using the CDA classification method, a high proportion of our TSFs were 
previously classified as  “extreme” or “very high” risk.
As part of the effort to systematize and improve tailings management across the 
industry, the Tailings Standard provides a consequence classification system for 
the categorization of TSFs. The system considers the consequence (or impact) of 
a credible failure at a TSF, including potential adverse impacts in the following five 
categories: potential population at risk; potential loss of life; environment; health, 
social and cultural; and infrastructure and economic. In accordance with the 
Tailings Standard, FCX has determined an updated classification for each of our 
active and some inactive facilities (remaining sites in progress), which is available 
on our website.
FCX has taken a conservative approach to applying the Tailings Standard 
classification methodology to its TSFs, such as classifying TSFs as Extreme where 
there is one or more permanent population at risk, even if just one permanently 
situated person could be at risk (a population at risk greater than 1,000 people is 
required to be classified as Extreme under the Tailings Standard). Based on work 
completed thus far, of our 15 active TSFs across our Americas operations, our 
Morenci operation in Arizona is our only site that has TSFs that are classified as 
“extreme.” We do not currently have any TSFs classified as “very high.” 
Risk Informed Decision Making
Risk informed decision making is a critical and integral part of how we design, 
build and operate our TSFs. By understanding and assessing the risks associated 
with a TSF, we can more effectively protect our people, host communities and 
the environment. Our approach to risk informed decision making is guided by the 
ICMM Tailings Management Good Practice Guide and consists of three primary 
elements that complement and reinforce one another: risk assessment, risk 
management, and surveillance and review. For additional information, please refer 
to the Tailings – Americas page of our website.
SAFE CLOSURE DESIGNATION 
As part of our Tailings Standard conformance, we have been reviewing our 
closed TSFs to determine which are ready to be deemed Safely Closed, 
as defined by the Tailings Standard. For a TSF to be designated as Safely 
Closed, FCX conducts an internal review, including detailed technical 
evaluations and risk assessments. The designation must be approved 
by the AE and confirmed by the ITRB. In line with risk informed decision 
making, when necessary, we continue to conduct additional investigations 
and analyses and enhance our controls. We also take additional actions to 
reduce residual risks to as low as reasonably practicable. As of January 31, 
2024, we had achieved the Safely Closed designation for 22 TSFs in the U.S. 
While Safely Closed TSFs are not subject to the Tailings Standard, FCX’s 
Safely Closed TSFs remain under our tailings management system and 
are subject to ongoing monitoring and surveillance, given our long-term 
commitment to maintaining ownership of these facilities. 
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 104
 105
Focus on Tailings Innovation
As described in the Water Stewardship section, a significant portion of our 
current water consumption (the water that is lost in operational activities and 
cannot be recovered) is due to losses from evaporation and entrainment (or 
trapped water) at our TSFs. Accordingly, we believe that the most significant 
improvement opportunities relate to our water consumption, and corresponding 
water use efficiency over the long-term will be driven by the deployment of new 
technologies and innovations pertaining to large-scale tailings management (for 
sites with a throughput greater than 100,000 tons per day) as well as the leaching 
of additional ore types rather than milling.
FCX has assessed various technologies and opportunities over the years 
with the aim of improving our tailings management practices and associated 
environmental and social impacts, including water use. In 2023, we created a 
dedicated Tailings Innovation Group with a focus on evaluating alternative tailings 
technologies for new TSF projects and supporting our operations teams to review 
existing TSF technologies. This group’s goal is to identify commercially viable 
technologies that may result in water savings, improved social and environmental 
aspects and/or enhanced geotechnical characteristics.
FCX is also actively involved in the GeoStable Tailings Consortium (GSTC), an 
industry-led initiative comprising 10 major global mining companies focused 
on developing and implementing new technological applications for managing 
tailings. The GSTC plans to study options to combine various blends of tailings 
with waste rock to create “geo-stable” landforms that are expected to be stronger 
and more stable than conventional tailings deposition methods and likely to 
reduce process water consumption. A range of research and development 
activities will be undertaken by the GSTC, including laboratory testing, field 
trials and data analysis. The consortium members will collaborate to promote 
best practices in tailings and waste management, as well as foster a culture of 
continuous improvement across the mining industry. FCX plans to complete 
laboratory testing and initiate field-scale GSTC tailings test pads at our Sierrita 
operations in 2024.
Tailings storage facility at our 
Sierrita operation, Arizona.
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 106
INDONESIA
The effective and safe management of tailings continues to be one of PT-FI’s most 
important environmental priorities. PT-FI operates a controlled riverine tailings 
management system, which was implemented based on methods approved and 
permitted by the Indonesia government.
PT-FI’s controlled riverine tailings management system uses the Aghawagon/
Otomona River to transport tailings from the concentrator in the highlands along 
with natural sediments to a large engineered and managed deposition area in 
the lowlands. This particular river was chosen because that part of the river is 
unnavigable and not used for potable water, agriculture, fishing or other domestic or 
commercial uses. 
Situated in the lowlands, the Modified Ajkwa Deposition Area, or ModADA, is 
the containment and retention system for tailings produced at the concentrator, 
as well as other sediments transported down the river. The ModADA is the 
terrestrial portion of the tailings management deposition area covering an area 
of approximately 230 square kilometers. Below the ModADA to the south is the 
estuary area encompassing approximately 220 square kilometers.
PT-FI has designed and constructed approximately 120 kilometers of levees on 
both sides of the ModADA to laterally contain the depositional footprint of the 
tailings and natural sediment within the approved boundary. Quantities of finer 
tailings and other sediments deposit in the estuary and the sea to the south. PT-FI 
continues to employ tailings management techniques that are aimed at enhancing 
the deposition of tailings onshore within the ModADA.
GOVERNANCE – INDONESIA 
PT-FI implements comprehensive and robust governance and oversight 
processes for its tailings management system. In addition to regular internal 
and external audits and assessments, oversight of the controlled riverine 
tailings management system is conducted by: 
•	 FCX Corporate Senior Leadership — Participates in key decisions and 
provides resources to site management. 
•	 FCX Corporate Tailings and Water Team — Technical resources that 
provide support and assist with guidance and direction for our site tailings 
team and associated program initiatives. 
•	 Site Tailings Management, Engineers and Operators — Internal 
team that implements the program and regularly monitors, identifies and 
addresses potential risks associated with the ModADA and coastal zone. 
•	 External Design Engineer — External resource that provides design and 
engineering support, periodic inspections and levee construction quality 
review. 
•	 ModADA Management Board — Multi-disciplinary expert panel that 
convenes yearly to provide oversight and recommendations to PT-FI 
leadership and engineering teams on priority activities including safety, 
risks associated with the ModADA and coastal zone, the structural 
integrity of the levees, geochemical stability of the deposited sediments, 
environmental considerations and stakeholder engagement.
The effective and safe management of 
tailings continues to be one of PT-FI’s  
most important environmental priorities.
 107
EFFECTIVELY MANAGING TAILINGS GEOCHEMISTRY 
Tailings from Grasberg are specifically managed to be geochemically benign, 
helping to ensure safety for the environment. This is partly possible due to the 
ore body characteristics and mine plan sequencing as well as our extensive 
monitoring and sampling programs. 
Before the tailings enter the controlled riverine tailings management system, 
the tailings are sampled several times daily to determine whether the desired 
geochemical balance has been achieved to avoid generation of acid-forming 
tailings. PT-FI analyzes the tailings samples to understand their acid production 
and neutralization potential in addition to their metal content and particle size. 
The information from this sampling program informs the mill operators about 
the expected behavior of the tailings with respect to potential acid generation, 
and if any adjustments to mill feed should be made such as the addition of 
limestone. This process forms the basis of the mill’s ability to confirm and maintain 
production of geochemically-neutral tailings to be deposited in the ModADA. 
In addition to monitoring and managing the tailings at the mill, PT-FI also regularly 
tests the neutralization potential versus acid production potential of the deposited 
sediments within the ModADA. If the measured ratio is not at the desired level, 
PT-FI can blend the material with higher neutralizing material until it reaches the 
desired level. 
BEST SITE-SPECIFIC TAILINGS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
PT-FI’s mines and concentrator complex are located in the mountainous area 
of the highlands at an elevation of more than 2,700 meters above sea level, 
which presents limited options for effective tailings management. Various 
tailings management options were studied in detail during the early phase 
of the Grasberg operations, in particular, when PT-FI developed plans to 
increase its ore production and processing capacity in the 1990s.
Given the unique and challenging site-specific topographical, hydrological 
and geotechnical conditions at Grasberg, we believe the controlled riverine 
tailings management system remains the best approach when considering 
the volume of tailings produced since mining inception (more than 2 billion  
tons through 2023), the limited cleared and level land available for a 
conventional tailings storage facility, the extremely high annual rainfall (up 
to 12 meters per year), and the active seismic loads associated with being 
situated in the tectonically active “Ring of Fire” where earthquakes are 
common. In this unique setting, we believe a large-scale conventional style 
tailings dam would not be safe, stable or effective.
Independent environmental management expert audits have reaffirmed our 
belief that this system is the best management alternative given the site-specific 
conditions of the area. The system has been in service for nearly 30 years and 
has performed reliably, safely and in line with initial design plans. Nearly three 
decades of engineering analyses, extensive monitoring and data collection, 
and computer modeling indicate that the current tailings management system 
poses the lowest risk to our host communities and the environment, and that 
the impacts of sedimentation, with the exception of elevation changes, are 
reversible at the end of the mine life. PT-FI continues to assess and evaluate 
additional ways to manage and further reduce the potential impacts of its 
controlled riverine tailings management system on the environment and our 
host communities, with a view toward continuous improvement.
Biodiveristy research near 
PT-FIs Grasberg operation 
in Papua, Indonesia. 
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 108
PT-FI ENVIRONMENTAL AND TAILINGS MONITORING PROGRAM
PT-FI commits significant resources to environmental management and 
monitoring measures to manage tailings safely. These measures include 
substantial internal and external engineering expertise, levee construction and 
river management, incorporating the latest technological advances, and corporate 
and independent third-party oversight. On average, PT-FI currently expects to 
spend approximately $100 million annually for the next 5 years to manage and 
monitor the riverine tailings management system. A multi-disciplinary, multi-
department team routinely monitors surface and groundwater quality, air quality, 
hydrological characteristics, sediment quality, meteorological patterns and 
ecological characteristics of the entire operations area. 
PT-FI collects approximately 15,000 samples for analysis annually (based on a 
5-year average), using the results to develop the scientific information needed to 
make informed management decisions about system performance with a focus 
on eliminating, minimizing and mitigating environmental impacts. To support this 
effort, PT-FI established the Timika Environmental Laboratory (TEL) in the mid-
1990s, located within our operational area in the lowlands town of Timika. The lab 
is certified to ISO 17025 quality standards by the Indonesian National Accreditation 
Committee and serves as the main analytical lab for sample analyses used in our 
monitoring programs. TEL is registered with the Indonesia Ministry of Environment 
and Forestry (MoEF) as a Referenced Environmental Laboratory. 
In addition, as part of our environmental management commitment at PT-FI, 
external audits have taken place on a routine basis since 1996. The most recent 
audit was completed in early 2023. This audit included in-person site visits in 2022 
to evaluate PT-FI’s compliance with national environmental laws, environmental-
related government regulations, land standards, a review of tailings management, 
and the Grasberg open pit’s closure in 2019, among other key environmental 
topics. An executive summary of the audit and recommendations, as well as a 
summary of PT-FI’s progress towards implementing the audit recommendations, 
are available on the FCX website. 
The Tailings Management Roadmap Update
During 2023, PT-FI continued working with Indonesia’s MoEF on the Tailings 
Management Roadmap, a process that was agreed to and established with 
the MoEF in December 2018 to support continuous improvement of PT-FI’s 
environmental and tailings management practices. 
The main objectives of the Tailings Management Roadmap are to: (1) reduce 
the amount of non-tailings sediments flowing into the ModADA, (2) consider 
additional methods to further control the retention and distribution of tailings 
within the ModADA and downstream area, and (3) examine the potential for the 
re-use of the tailings in infrastructure projects (such as for road construction and 
as building materials) and other beneficial uses.
To date, PT-FI has complied with the Tailings Management Roadmap for the 2019 
to 2024 period. In 2023, PT-FI continued to work with MoEF on developing projects 
that represent incremental improvements to the performance of the tailings 
management system, in both the terrestrial and estuary portions of the tailings 
management area. This includes methods to enhance sediment retention within the 
ModADA and accelerate the growth of mangrove forests on deposited sediments 
containing tailings in the estuary environment. These initiatives not only align with 
the aspirations of the Indonesia government to increase mangrove forest areas in 
Indonesia, but also to illustrate the benign nature of deposited tailings and the ability 
of these newly formed land areas to support diverse ecosystem services.
In the Ajkwa Estuary, we use advanced construction methods 
(geotubes and E-groins) to help stabilize sedimentation to 
enable the creation of new land areas for mangrove colonization.
 109
NATURAL SEDIMENTATION IMPACTS ON ISLAND OF NEW GUINEA 
The rivers located on the island of New Guinea are exceptional in their 
naturally occurring sediment loads. New Guinea is situated in an environment 
with extremely high rainfall and was formed through tectonic activity 
resulting in steep, mountainous terrain. The combination of steep mountains 
and high rainfall naturally results in large amounts of erosion feeding into 
the rivers, producing natural sediment concentrations in rivers throughout 
the region ranking among the highest in the world. Independent studies 
by academics and researchers have estimated that New Guinea and 5 of 
its island neighbors (Java, Sumatra, Borneo, Sulawesi and Timor) naturally 
produce roughly 20% to 25% of all sediments transported to Earth’s oceans 
despite only accounting for 2% of global land area draining to the ocean. 
New Guinean rivers, in particular, are estimated to deliver 1.7 billion metric 
tons of sediment to the ocean every year. This phenomenon is part of a 
continuous process of erosion from the mountainous elevations resulting in 
high levels of sediments being transported to the sea which can be observed 
through aerial and satellite images all along the coastline of the Arafura 
Sea. This process of sediment erosion creates new land along the island’s 
coastline. Natural growth of the island and associated growth of mangrove 
forests has been observed through a series of satellite images. 
While the sedimentation within the coastal areas of PT-FI’s tailings 
management system occurs at a faster rate than naturally occurring 
sedimentation, these impacts were predicted in numerous studies and 
are consistent with the controlled riverine system design and operation 
approved and permitted by the Indonesia government. Monitoring results 
continue to indicate that the environmental impacts of the tailings deposition 
are reversible at the end of the mine’s life, except for elevation changes 
from deposited sediments. Importantly, the sediments within PT-FI’s area of 
operations have proven to be very suitable for colonization of indigenous 
plant communities, including mangrove forests. PT-FI’s large-scale 
demonstration reclamation projects show that several land use options will 
be possible after final closure of the deposition area.
REVEGETATION IN PT-FI’S TAILINGS DEPOSITION AREA
To advance post-mining reclamation options and productive land use options on 
tailings soils, PT-FI isolated a 750-hectare area where tailings had previously been 
deposited to use as a natural tailings reclamation laboratory. A research team 
from the University of Papua (UNIPA) conducted a vegetation inventory of PT-FI’s 
tailings deposition area, and the team discovered that the number of living plant 
species had more than doubled in the last 17 years. In 2022, UNIPA researchers 
identified 1,089 plant species growing naturally on tailings compared to the 504 
species identified in the same area in 2005. A baseline study was completed by 
UNIPA in 2023 to evaluate agricultural productivity and feasibility of cultivating 
plants for economic benefit on fresh tailings. Results from that study are being 
incorporated into a long-term comprehensive UNIPA/PT-FI Integrated Land 
Farming study. The Integrated Land Farm will incorporate agriculture, animal 
husbandry and a freshwater fishery to create a single farming system on tailings 
with zero waste. The study is expected to begin in late 2024.
Study of agricultural productivity near PT-FIs 
Grasberg operation in Papua, Indonesia.
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 110
NON-MINERAL WASTE MANAGEMENT 
WHY IT MATTERS 
Every business creates waste, and reducing and responsibly managing that 
waste is essential to effectively managing environmental impacts. Responsible 
waste management is critical to complying with environmental regulations, 
maintaining community and environmental health, and advancing social 
acceptance of mining operations.
OUR APPROACH 
FCX is committed to reducing our environmental impact, which includes the 
effective management of our non-mineral waste (such as recycled material and 
landfilled waste). We continuously evaluate opportunities to reduce the quantity 
of non-mineral waste generated at our operations. We seek to apply the standard 
protocol of reduce, reuse, or recycle wherever possible and implement robust 
practices to identify, categorize, store and manage non-mineral wastes. Through our 
asset recovery programs, we divert certain materials from landfills, and we strive to 
increase recycling and reuse of those materials in our operations. We also evaluate 
our hazardous waste streams and, when possible, substitute materials with lower 
toxicity into our processes. For wastes that require disposal, we work with third-
party handlers to confirm that the treatment, storage and disposal facilities manage 
the non-mineral waste in line with contractual or legislative obligations. 
Our dedicated non-mineral waste management team is composed of subject 
matter experts from across the company who are responsible for advancing 
our technical expertise and developing leadership skills through multi-site 
collaboration. Our experts provide guidance to support global consistency 
in our non-mineral waste management programs and adherence to FCX’s 
Environmental Policy.
MINING AND MINERAL PROCESSING WASTES
FCX produces substantially more mining and mineral processing wastes, 
such as tailings, waste rock, overburden and slag, than non-mineral waste. 
In 2023, we generated 341 million metric tons of tailings, 408 million 
metric tons of waste rock and overburden and 0.7 million metric tons of 
slag. The volume of mining and mineral processing waste we generate 
varies depending on site-specific mine plans. These materials are typically 
managed in designated, engineered stockpiles or impoundments. Details 
about how our mining and mineral processing wastes are managed can be 
found in the Tailings Management section. 
Morenci operation.
 111
PERFORMANCE 
Our non-mineral wastes are categorized as: (1) non-hazardous (such as tires, 
scrap metal, obsolete equipment, HDPE pipe, domestic waste and wood 
waste) and (2) hazardous (such as water treatment sludge, chemicals, solvents, 
batteries and reagent packaging). In 2023, we generated approximately 297 
thousand metric tons of non-mineral wastes, of which 10% was hazardous 
and 90% was non-hazardous. Quantities of non-hazardous waste were higher 
than in 2022 due to an increase in water treatment plant sludge generated and 
managed at several sites as well as an increase in construction and demolition 
waste associated with site construction projects.
When possible, our materials are evaluated for other end-of-life uses in accordance 
with applicable regulations and are recycled at our own operations or into the 
global value chain. Through our continuous improvement efforts, we have identified 
and implemented numerous waste minimization or recycling efforts across our 
operations. For example, PT-FI reuses or recycles a variety of materials on- and off-
site, including coal ash waste generated by our current coal-fired power plant, which 
is reused to make concrete for site construction projects; used tires, which are 
used to help to stabilize embankments and slopes; used plastic, which is collected, 
chopped and recycled into paving blocks; aluminum waste, which is recycled into 
souvenirs; and solid organic waste, which is collected, composted and used for 
reclamation activities. As another example, our Americas operations recycled more 
than 1,425 haul truck tires and other large vehicle tires in 2023. In North America, the 
majority of recycled tires were re-purposed for use as water troughs for animals. 
PROJECT CIRCULAR – INCREASING E-WASTE RECYCLING CAPACITY
Our Atlantic Copper smelter in Huelva, Spain, is a custom smelter which 
receives concentrates from all over the world. It currently utilizes scrap, 
mostly from the European end-of-life electronics (e-waste) market.
Through Project CirCular, Atlantic Copper is developing capacity to 
recycle end of life e-waste into its existing smelting and refining facilities. 
The project, which is expected to begin operation in 2025, includes the 
addition of a smelting furnace and associated equipment to recover 
copper, gold, silver, palladium, tin, nickel and platinum from e-waste.
Hazardous Waste
Non-Hazardous Waste
% Recycled
49%
45%
48%
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
THOUSAND METRIC TONS
42%
50%
2019
2020
2023
NON-MINERAL WASTE GENERATED & RECYCLED
2021
2022
View more data in 
the ESG Performance 
Data Section
Reused haul truck tires.
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 112
MINE CLOSURE & RECLAMATION
WHY IT MATTERS 
Mining requires infrastructure projects that alter the natural environment, such as 
open-pit mines, roads and processing facilities. Mining companies are responsible 
for managing these impacts, which include reclamation of the land for post-
mining use. The purpose of reclamation is to return areas impacted by mining and 
processing activities to a healthy state with lands that support productive post-
mining land uses.
OUR APPROACH 
FCX understands that effectively reclaiming disturbed land and responsibly 
planning for closure of our mining and processing sites is critical to maintaining 
the trust of our local communities, governments, and other interested 
stakeholders, and as such, reclamation and mine closure processes are integral to 
our site planning and ongoing operations. 
We seek to plan and operate our mines in a manner that considers post-mining 
land use well in advance of mine closure. Likewise, when designing new projects 
or expanding existing ones, we plan for how the land can be reclaimed once the 
mine closes. Our philosophy of responsible production continues when we close 
our mining and processing sites through to reclamation.
FCX strives to work in partnership with our host communities (which in many 
cases include Indigenous Peoples) to define and deliver shared value, throughout 
the mine life cycle. We not only seek to avoid, minimize and mitigate negative 
impacts from our operations, but also aim to provide long-lasting benefits to 
our neighbors so people can thrive beyond the life of our mines. At each of 
our operations, we have mine closure and reclamation plans with site-specific 
environmental measures designed to minimize long-term impacts, promote 
ecosystem reestablishment and protect the watersheds where we operate. To 
support future anticipated closure and reclamation costs, each operating mine 
site has asset retirement obligations aligned with approved closure plans. Closure 
plans are periodically updated to incorporate new learnings and additional 
disturbances associated with new development and expansion projects. Asset 
retirement obligations are estimated and accounted for in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the U.S. and are audited by 
an independent accounting firm.
Most of our mines operate for several decades or longer, due to the geological 
nature of the deposits and the large resource base. As a result, implementation 
of closure plans may not occur for several decades in the future after the initial 
impact. While opportunities for concurrent reclamation are limited, we plan 
for, continually evaluate and carry out concurrent reclamation when possible. 
Reclamation planning actions that occur during operations may include 
constructing and monitoring test plots, characterizing materials for eventual 
closure work and designing new stockpiles or tailings facilities for closure prior to 
construction. 
Our reclamation programs seek to incorporate multiple aspects associated with 
environmental management and community well-being, such as water and air 
quality, climate change, erosion, wildlife habitats and revegetation programs. Our 
traditional post-mining land use has been focused on wildlife habitats, and we 
increasingly are exploring other opportunities such as open spaces, recreational 
and educational uses, renewable energy sites and new industrial uses for our 
lands post-closure. By the end of 2024, we plan to have dedicated an area of 
land to test our site-specific reclamation programs at each of our North America 
operating mining sites and at Cerro Verde. We have final reclamation plots 
constructed in the highlands at Grasberg in addition to a number of large-scale 
reclamation areas in the lowlands. In addition to test plots, we monitor reclaimed 
lands in Arizona and New Mexico to observe restoration effectiveness. Since the 
transition to underground mining was completed in 2019, the focus around the 
former Grasberg open pit mine area has been on closure and reclamation work, 
which consists of finalizing a major slope stabilization project, other geotechnical 
stability projects, facility recovery, drainage control and revegetation activities. 
 113
In Colorado, we continue to work with Trout Unlimited and the Division of 
Reclamation, Mining and Safety (DRMS) in a multi-year partnership focused on 
supporting clean watersheds. Our commitment assists the Colorado Inactive Mine 
Reclamation program to leverage funds from government agencies, industrial 
partners and non-profit environmental organizations to reclaim abandoned mine 
sites that are not associated with our current or prior operations but are primarily 
within the watersheds in which we currently operate or are managing legacy 
liabilities. Our partnership with DRMS and Trout Unlimited also has brought 
external expertise to complement and support our own Colorado legacy mine 
site reclamation at the former Keystone mine site near Crested Butte, Colorado. 
The partnership has been integral to the successful design and implementation of 
reclamation activities at the site. 
MAN IN THE MAZE PROJECT
FCX recognizes the impact of its historic operations and works to reclaim and 
restore areas associated with those legacy operations. In 2016, we enrolled 
80 acres associated with the former Eagle Picher Mill site into the Arizona 
Department of Environmental Quality’s Voluntary Remediation Program. 
In 2019, we began working with the town, community stakeholders and 
conservation groups to identify opportunities to put the site to beneficial use 
for the community. The site has since been reclaimed and transformed into a 
natural, open-use space that was donated to the community of Sahuarita in 
Spring 2024. The I'itoi Trails Park, which translates to Man in the Maze in the 
language of the Tohono O'odham people who have a historical connection to 
the land consists of hiking trails, native plants, wildlife habitat and more than 
8 acres of pollinator habitat. It was also designed to provide an educational 
experience through informational kiosks about the natural and cultural 
heritage of the area, designated areas with Tohono O’odham traditional food 
plants and wa:atos (mesquite ramadas) with associated signage on their 
significance and use. 
Man in the Maze ribbon cutting at Parcel 
30, near our Sierrita operation, Arizona. 
2023 ANNUAL REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY
 114
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE 
WHY IT MATTERS 
Countries around the world have various laws and regulations that are designed 
to protect the environment. Meeting these requirements is essential to a mining 
company’s social license to operate, and it relies upon effective due diligence 
and strong internal processes, policies and practices that drive accountability 
and transparency. 
OUR APPROACH 
Our active mining and mineral processing operations and technology centers 
maintain environmental management systems (EMS) that are certified to the ISO 
14001:2015 standard by independent auditors. As part of our EMS, our workforce is 
trained on site-specific subject areas and annually on environmental issues and is 
supported by environmental professionals working in the field. 
Site management teams identify, manage and mitigate environmental risks 
through our risk register process and the use of environmental critical control 
systems designed to prevent environmental incidents at our operations. Critical 
controls are focused on the elimination of unplanned releases and prevention or 
minimization of impacts to water and other natural resources. 
At the corporate level, subject matter experts train, develop and support our site 
teams, routinely conduct site visits, and in some cases, directly manage a group of 
site-based experts. Collectively, they are responsible for building technical expertise, 
ensuring consistency in our environmental programs and sharing best practices. 
To support this effort, we provide annual training for our employees on critical 
environmental compliance topics, including air, water, waste and biodiversity. In 
2023, we held in-person training sessions and conducted approximately 5,000 
hours of training. Additionally, we continued to train our global teams on how to 
track environmental incidents in our recently adopted company-wide digital incident 
management system. We conduct various internal and external audits across our 
sites to review our EMS processes and confirm compliance with the ISO 14001:2015 
environmental standard. Comprehensive, independent recertification audits are 
conducted at our operating mines and processing sites every three years. During 
each interim year, surveillance audits are conducted by external audit teams. Our 
internal team, together with outside consultants, conducts corporate-led audits of 
many sites as well. Across our sites in 2023, we completed 11 internal EMS audits 
and 9 internal environmental compliance audits. In addition, in 2023, our mining 
sites were inspected by governmental regulatory agencies 92 times, resulting in 2 
Notice of Violations (NOV) that were subsequently addressed.
As part of our environmental management commitment at PT-FI, external audits 
have taken place at the Grasberg operations on a routine basis since 1996. The most 
recent audit was completed in early 2023. This audit included in-person site visits in 
2022 to evaluate PT-FI’s compliance with national environmental laws, environmental-
related government regulations, environmental standards and a review of tailings 
management, the Grasberg open pit closure, among other key environmental topics. 
An executive summary of the audit and recommendations, as well as a summary of 
PT-FI’s progress towards implementing the audit recommendations are available on 
our website. In addition to our external audits, we also strive to conduct in-person 
internal environmental compliance audits at PT-FI annually.
The robust nature of our internal audits and regulatory inspections are part of 
the strength of our systems and our commitment to maintain compliance. We 
integrate the findings from both internal and external audits into our corrective 
and preventative action plans at all of our sites. These actions are reviewed 
by corporate subject matter experts to ensure such measures are robust and 
institutionalized for the future.
Biodiveristy research near PT-FIs 
Grasberg operation in Papua, Indonesia. 
 115
PERFORMANCE
FCX had the following global environmental compliance targets in 2023: (1) incur 
zero significant environmental events as defined in our risk register process, and 
(2) incur zero environmental penalties over $100,000 on an individual basis. 
In 2023, we experienced an increase in reportable spills or releases. The increase 
was due in large part to a number of smaller spill events related to issues such 
as power or equipment failure, operator error or weather-related events. Two 
incidents were identified as significant³ according to our internal risk register 
process during the year. At El Abra, a valve failure in a pumping station allowed 
approximately 1,000 cubic meters of an acidic solution to flow from a secondary 
containment to a downstream area where it was controlled in stormwater 
sedimentation ponds located in the bottom of a creek upstream of the Conchi 
Viejo village. The site activated its contingency plan and immediately implemented 
corrective actions to stop the flow and clean up the impacted area. Our 
monitoring indicates that groundwater quality was not affected by this incident.
Following this incident, the site enhanced the maintenance program of valve and 
pipeline inspections aiming to prevent failures in the future.
At Cerro Verde, a failure of a reclaimed water pipeline caused approximately 
300 cubic meters of process water to flow down an internal operations road and 
enter an uninhabited area outside of our concession area. After identifying the 
issue, a pump operator stopped pumping and activated the contingency plan. 
The water naturally dried within a few days of the release and did not require 
any further remediation. 
We did not incur any environmental penalties over $100,000 on an individual 
basis during the year. Fines levied in 2023 were associated with NOVs related 
to soil monitoring and reporting at Cerro Verde, water monitoring and reporting 
programs at El Abra and wastewater discharge permit violations at the El Paso 
refinery and rod mill. Typically, when our operations receive an NOV from a 
regulatory agency, the citations involve brief and minor exceedances of permit 
conditions or other record-keeping.
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
Reportable Spills or Releases of Hazardous or Toxic Chemicals1
33
19
20
16
34
NOVs2 (related to permit exceedances, spills, releases or other 
compliance matters)
5
6
9
12
16
Number of Significant Environmental Events³
0
0
0
1
2
Environmental Penalties Paid4
$124,682
$67,100
$18,951
$24,301
$10,831
1. 	 Reported figures are those reported to a national agency. Spills associated with pipeline sabotage at PT-FI's Grasberg operations are not reflected in this table. 
2. 	 NOV is Notice of Violation. When NOVs are rescinded based on the legal appeals process, prior year data are updated.
3. 	 Our risk assessment uses a likelihood and consequence matrix with a scale on each axis from 1 through 4, with 4 being the highest likelihood or consequence. Significant environmental events are defined as those with a rating of 3 or 
higher on the consequence scale. 
4. 	 Fines paid during 2023 were associated with NOVs related to soil monitoring and reporting at Cerro Verde ($4,763), water monitoring and reporting programs at El Abra ($5,668), and wastewater discharge permit violations at the El 
Paso refinery and rod mill ($400).		
	
	
	
	
		
	
	
